we look at the Giza Plateau we look at
the pyramids and we think wow that's
incredible look at the achievements but
what about under the ground there was a
whole network of rooms and Cavities
underneath the Sphinx the entire area of
Giza may have an entire Subterranean
area underneath it you realize the
implications of what you're saying
you're saying that NASA figured out that
we're actually living in these sort of
civilizational cycles and they're hiding
it and in order to cover it up they
blocked all knowledge of the binary star
companion so that that whole cycle would
not be understood you're of the opinion
that this dead star is headed towards
the sun now yes when do you think these
underground cities were built that's the
ultimate question nobody knows and it
was sealed and buried and concealed by
the flood I think this is what we call
Atlantis I would say that it's what
we're looking for for the Lost
civilizations Matt lroy I could not be
more excited to have you man uh this has
been a long time coming I've seen a
couple of your episodes with Julian Dory
and it's really serendipitous cuz I'm La
I interviewed Graham Hancock two days
ago and I feel like he takes things to a
certain point he's done an amazing job
along with Randle Carlson and many
others as far as I think really proving
out the younger dras impact Theory this
idea that at the latter end of the uh
last ice age there was maybe this Comet
airburst from the Tor meteor stream that
wiped out some Proto civilization some
civilization that existed prior to ours
he speculates as to what that civil
ization is he talks about the Atlantean
myth which comes from Plato but I think
where Graham falls short and he'll admit
he falls short at times is actually
proving out that that Proto civilization
definitely existed characterizing them
who were they what did they you know do
what were their mythologies how did they
live what technology did they have and I
think you're sort of taking things to a
whole other level with your work as far
as you know really discovering what this
civilization was all about and you know
what they were building and uh you're
figuring out conflations that were made
between this civilization and other
civilizations that are much less old and
so I couldn't be more excited to have
you man thanks Jesse it's great to be
here I'm looking forward to this
conversation definitely yeah it's going
to be a blast so okay I want to start in
the most basic possible kind of starting
point and so how did you get into the
idea that there's sort of this big
civilizational cover up there's you know
the civilization before ours it got
wiped out uh how how did you get into
that idea to begin with well I've had
this Natural Curiosity for a lot of my
life you know seeing early movies that
that showed Lost Civilization type of
Concepts and advanced things that were
long ago long before were told and I
have to give a lot of credit to Graham
Hancock and R Carlson they definitely
spearheaded me um a lot of early on in
my in my journey of understanding this
and kind of doing that that wow factor
of like wait a minute so things perhaps
are very different than we're taught in
school and in which archaeology uh
positions themselves on giving an an
idea of what our history looked like in
what's called a gradualism kind of way
right where we were primitive once long
ago hunter gatherers and then our
current ERA of going from Iron Age um
Bronze Age you know up until our current
age is this linear growth and that's all
we've been taught but really to me if
you look at all the evidence that's been
mounting right I just got back from
turkey with Dr Robert shock who is one
of the main players that was brought
over by John Anthony West to go
investigate the Sphinx enclosure to see
if it is truly wind erosion as
archaeologists and geologists had
postulated or whether or not it's really
water erosion because that really
matters because it takes that whole
dating of the idea of the Sphinx being
created at a much much earlier time
that's where a lot of this blossomed is
those kinds of things let's set this up
for the audience real quick so if you
were to talk to like the you know Egypt
Ministry of culture they would tell you
you know that the the Sphinx was built
in you know modern Egyptian Kingdom yeah
and uh in fact what people like Robert
shock and John Anthony West have found
is that there's water erosion damage on
the nose of the Limestone of the Sphinx
and that this would show that there's
some sort of maybe tropical climate that
it originally existed and people like
Graham Hancock have followed up on this
to say that maybe actually uh it was a
lion to begin with fully and so this
lined up with the Leo which was the
constellation that was the vernal
equinox shift occurring in 10,500 BC
around the time maybe it was actually
built and that much later it was sort of
retrofitted with this fonic headdress
exactly and that's actually one of the
themes that we're going to be discussing
throughout this talk is the idea that
you have a civilization emerge at a
later time period we'll call it we'll
start by saying the dynastic Egyptians
okay kufu and right ramsy and all these
others that actually found and emerged
out of what was a much earlier
civilization that had been there and
what they did and looks like increasing
evidence is showing that is that they
adopted those sites but not only adopted
them they tried to claim them that they
were basically the ones who built them
and recarved certain things like what
you said as I believe 100% that if you
look at the way that the body of the
Sphinx is versus the head the head's too
small because the head was never
supposed to be that size it was built in
proportion with the body and like you
said I believe as well it was a lion and
that it was basically what we think of
as a guardian the Ancients believed that
if you created something to be uh this a
certain types of spirit IR spirit
animals like lions and Eagles and
different things they embodied this
protective aspect and so they would
create and we're going to get into that
a lot of stuff with turkey is that they
created these artifacts and these
symbols and murals and statues that
shows these protector creatures that
were basically part of guarding things
like ancient libraries and underground
areas and that's what I believe the
Sphinx is is essentially it's guarding
an entire Subterranean area underneath
it that we look at the Giza Plateau we
look at the pyramids and we we think wow
that's incredible look at the
achievements but what about under the
ground how do how do you think there's
something under the ground there well um
again I was just in just with uh Dr
Robert shock in in uh in turkey and we
were talking extensively over dinner
about how he was part in spearheading
these um sonar these readings basically
ground pending trading type of radar
sonar under the ground looking at voids
underneath the ious in seeing these
massive massive voids with actual
objects present so for instance what
objects are well you can have you can
have uh cavities that water can
naturally erode right something where
it's like oh it's like a cave underneath
well no because they're look like they
they're clearly been cut with tools or
whatever they use to cut them and there
are again like I said there are objects
down there that have you like blocks or
things like that that are not natural
and so we know and we picked that up
with sonar has anybody gone down there
and tried to verify well this is this is
the story and I'll I'll tell this story
is that when the in the 90s when they
found these massive voids and it's not
just under the Sphinx it's under the
Great Pyramids as well they all connect
with these like Subterranean underworld
type of areas they found that there was
a whole network of rooms in cavities
underneath the Sphinx as the first area
that then led to literally all the
entire area of Giza may have an entire
Subterranean area underneath it now
we're told by things like uh Edgar Casey
and others that there was like an
ancient library that was supposed to be
underneath the Great Sphinx that had the
records of you know ancient ancient
times and all these secrets and things
like that they called it um they was
called the halls of mentee that led to
this this ancient library now when they
found these voids we know that there are
four entrances four underneath this the
Sphinx there's one under the left paw
there's one on the top of the head and
you can actually if you go like online
right now and look up um like you know
tunnel on top of the head you can see it
it's capped off on top there's one on
the back side um and then there's
another one on the on the one one of the
other sides of the Sphinx so there's
three to four entrances that are known
about so is the Sphinx Hollow no it's
made out of actually the Bedrock so it's
it was an entire in uh section of
Bedrock that they took all the sides
away when you say an entrance coming
from the head what do you entering it's
carved down into this Bedrock body okay
the entire Sphinx is not made out of
stones put together it's made out of a
Bedrock Foundation body so it's just cut
out of the Bedrock and so they have
tunnels especially Robert shock
determine that the one under the Paw I
think it might actually be the right paw
so the Sphinx is like a gate to Gateway
it's like a guardian that's guarding
guarding these entrances that go into
like ancient libraries wow okay now why
can't we go down well this is what
happened when they determined in the 90s
and they had these um basically types of
ground penetrating radar like different
types of ways that they were determining
it to find the voids they published them
and they kind of went viral and
everyone's like oh my God what's what's
down there and the Egyptian authorities
came through and they boarded up the
front of the Paw with boards literal
boards and blocked it off and then what
they did is very clever they ended up
drilling down to prove to the public
that there was no voids but they
purposely went where that wasn't
entrances just drilling down into rock
and say look there's nothing here and it
was very very misleading and clever so
that people are like oh shoot so there
weren't really voids down there it was
just like an opening that's from
rainwater or something and they tricked
people do you think they're
simultaneously going down there there
and Excavating question is have they
ever been down um there's there's really
no answer to that to no but if that was
if you knew about that and you
deliberately didn't go down and then you
literally boarded it up the whole front
of the Sphinx is now boarded up that
would to me be something where you're
trying to kind of Silence who took the
first sonar readings it was Robert jock
was part of a team a whole a whole team
that was that was basically looking down
and taking this type of ground
penetrating radar to is he not
campaigning and outraged and saying we
should be going down there or what there
are steps that need to happen there are
many many many millions of dollars that
need to be obtained and then
universities that have to be brought
into this um it's something that uh I
know that he would potentially be
interested and we would we would like
other groups and others that are
interested to come together to try to
bring this back again and uh reignite
this uh under under ground exploration
of the Subterranean areas of Giza and I
think it will happen in the future and I
get maybe this this types of
conversations are what's needed to get
that started again do you have a
hypothesis as to what me might be down
there I think there are entire Chambers
and I think there probably is a library
now if that library was made out of
paper it wouldn't exist anymore because
paper only survives for 500 to A
Thousand Years which would mean that it
had to be had be something like tablets
with uh like type of kinor or
hieroglyphics carved into it whatever it
is would have to be able to survive
literally 10,000 years um underground
which is not again paper would never be
able to so you'd have to have other
means so if the Sphinx were actually
built around 10,500 BC what sort of
writing would you expect to find down in
these tunnels well that's the question
is whether or not a hieroglyphics like
we see in in dynastic Egyptians was even
the type of language that they used and
that where that's going to come up again
when we talk about copor it's a writing
style uh that we see out of throughout
Mesopotamia now to be very clear if you
were not to carve some kind of writing
into stone or clay there would simply be
no method that we know exists for how to
leave leave a message now I'll give one
caveat to that there could be some type
of technology that they incorporated
into stone that could have a way to
record information that we don't
understand yet because I say that
because there because there was a very
specific reason that these civilizations
would get certain kinds of stone so they
would not be like oh hey look there's
some Bedrock to our right or left let's
go cut those blocks out of that they
didn't do that they didn't that didn't
seem to matter to them that in fact the
distance that they were willing to go to
obtain certain Stone um was even
irrelevant to them give you an example
all the pink GR it we find throughout
the Giza Plateau came from 500 miles
away to the south in the Awan Quarry
that was your only source of this type
of pink Granite which of course is
extremely high in silica quartz which is
the same substance that we use for
watches so is there something there with
uh keep recording messages in that that
we don't understand I want to throw that
out as a possibility so that I don't say
that the only form of writing would be
like K of former hieroglyphics in stone
do you think that the Great Pyramids of
Giza were also built around that period
much earlier than well and this is an
interesting um dilemma is that first of
all we know they're at least 10,500 BC
and that's the first thing to point out
because number one that's when we have
these alignments with different star
constellations okay there's something
called The King and queen's chamber that
face different constellations right the
Queen's chamber faces Sirius it's like a
feminine energy and the King's chamber
faces Orion the problem is B based on
What's called the procession of the
equinoxes which is how the Earth wobbles
and and looks at different ages and
constellations that could not have
happened in modern history all the way
until you get back to 10,500 BC the
problem is that that was an extremely
volatile time for Earth's history that
was during this period of the older and
then the younger Drive which is
basically when our we went our Earth
went from the pene Epic to the Holocene
epic and we went through these
catastrophic periods now we can get into
what caused them because I personally
don't believe it was an impact and we
can get into some of the implications of
how there's correlations between both
and have similar evidence for what you
know they could could lead to that but
the problem is if you have extremely
volatile periods on the earth it
wouldn't make sense to me to be able to
build these massive structures during
that now John Anthony West uh and I know
that Robert shock and him had a lot of
conversations around this John Anthony
West believed that it was a previous age
in which the Sphinx was built and I do
as well well the thing that never made
sense to me about you know some of the
extrapolations of the kind of Hamlet's
Mill thesis this idea that we would
build you know architecture specifically
around the great procession you know the
the the the vernal equinoxes you know
that it's 26,000 years CES yeah that's
the great year that's what's called the
great year right so like the idea that
like um you know in 10,500 BC that uh
civilization that's building specific
megalithic architecture would have the
cosmic understanding of you know 26,000
years prior like they you know they they
really understand these sort of macro
Cycles when it comes to you know
cosmology and astronomy yeah that seems
hard for even me to believe and so that
makes me think maybe it is old look I
believe that simultaneous to what I'm
saying to play Devil's Advocate you know
I do think ancient civilizations had
precocious understanding of the stars
and they had you know like you could see
look at Sumerian architecture where you
know it feels like they they understand
this heliocentric universe and they have
like all the you know planets and their
rough alignment having said that you
know 26,000 year cycles that feels
really crazy but I what do you think I
think we shouldn't underestimate the
knowledge that these lost civilizations
and I say that that's in quotes lost
civilizations understood and that we
were completely reset just like Graham
Hancock says right a species with
amnesia we don't remember who we are we
don't remember what we once were and
what we once understood and I think that
these monuments that basically are
evidence I think Left Behind to be the
test the last the test of time built out
of the hardest stones in the world would
be the perfect way to be able to have
their memory and their knowledge be
preserved so that someday in the future
Humanity could finally find their way
back and I say find their way back
because I believe that they had
sophistication and knowledge that we
simply don't have even now well do do
you have you ever watched the movie
Stargate you in fact when you ask me
that question of how I got into this I
would say Stargate was the first movie
that Tru awakened me and encapsulated me
at a young age to in wide Wonder yeah to
be like wait a minute yeah there's
something else going on here well what's
always interested to me is you have
Aztec Kings you have Nebuchadnezzar you
have King Judea of su Sumeria you have
all these sort of story of pharaohs with
similar stories where they get these
downloads and it's like you have to
build this structure that's
astronomically aligned in a specific way
way yeah and Graham Hancock talks about
this as well he says probably had more
to do with some sort of afterlife ritual
I mean traditionally even in a lot of
esoteric versions of modern religions
your soul ascends through Orion's Belt
and it's there's some sort of weird
Ascension path and so is the specific
geometric structure of the pyramid
somehow this conserved version of that
where you know when you when you die you
go there and you sort of this portal to
some other world something so it's this
concept and it's echoed throughout
hermeticism and others it's it's known
as the law of Correspondence okay and
now the specific science behind it is
called geodesi now geodesi is basically
creating structures in very specific
positions to not only match things like
cardinal points and different ratios of
like the earth sun and the moon but also
star constellations and the Ancients I
believe had mastered that knowledge and
that Concept in which if you build
something that mirrors the stars in an
exact way ratio-wise on our Earth and
you also incorporate in the uh the the
corresponding aspects of Earth Sun and
Moon that you create like a Synergy and
it's and and that may be this concept we
think about with like a portal it's some
kind of a Synergy because the Earth
listen it's a giant it's like a it's
like a crystal magnet okay it's a
crystal that vibrating at a certain
resonant frequency that has these
geomagnetic poles that use this concept
of magnetism and and of course Nicola
Tesla believed that Not only was
vibration frequency and magnetism like a
core of understanding everything in the
universe but he believed that even
crystals have like a form of sentient
life that they vibrate in a way that
other minerals and other Stones don't
and they have some kind of an
intelligence or something that we don't
understand and ifats the case it means
that our Earth is literally alive it's a
living thing and it's a it's like a
being but it's unlike us and that the
Sun the and the moon are also like that
and that we all have this this
connection that is deeper than we
perhaps understand and that
constellations like Orion um played a
very pivotal part in understanding again
like you mentioned if you create that
Synergy between the heavens are you
creating something between like a portal
between soul
in different Incarnation cycles and
things here and of course we can get
down that road as well but geodesi for
instance I want to go back to that
really quick a lot of these structures
on the earth like the Great Pyramid of
Giza um as well as things like arido in
ancient Sumer and other locations are
built on What's called the 30th parallel
it's this part of the earth that is in
this quadrant Zone that is basically
part of like a hemisphere ratio of the
earth and other aspects and when you
look at the positioning of these
structures all around the world you
realize that they were perfect in their
time but the very interesting thing that
we can get into when we're talking about
the civilization that I'm studying even
to a greater degree in Eastern Turkey is
you find out that there's this type of
Susi type of Temple called a Susi Temple
s UI that had openings that faced only
the based on solar aspects of the rising
and the Setting Sun the problem is none
of those Susi temples face directly west
or east anymore they're all off and if
you look around the world you can see
that many of these structures no longer
are perfect in their cardinal points or
their dire Direction anymore showing us
that during these volatile times I
believe the Earth's axis
shifted and that would be ultimately one
way you were asking earlier before we
start the show how could you date these
well one way you could date them is by
looking at when when they were aligned
and and if they're not aligned now it
means that something was very different
because they didn't make mistakes if I
were making a counterargument I might
say you are we can't carbon date the
stuff which would be the most scientific
thing to do but you can't carbonate
Stone no and
so you know we are then just
retrofitting this current you know
observed megalithic architecture which
is impossible to build kind of currently
like there's nobody can really argue
with that the Civil infrastructure and
Engineering necessary is just like we
don't have currently but we're just
finding the time when it lined up
astronomically and we're saying that's
the time that we built it do we have
more evidence that it was it's
definitely older than is conventionally
understood we we do and there's I can
give a couple examples of that one of
them and again I just got back from with
Dr Robert shock from turkey and there's
a site called ke kesi very Myster ious
and enigmatic site with these giant
Square Basalt blocks and basalt is one
of the hardest stones in the world it's
seven on the most hardness scale out of
10 very very hard Stone and it uh has
these machine cuts and all of these
levels of sophistication that are
bizarre and mysterious but on the
surfaces of many of them and only on the
surfaces that face above we find uh
melting that has taken place literal
melting of the stone and Dr Robert Shaw
confirmed confirmed on numerous stones
that it is indeed vitrification and to
obtain that you would have to have
temperatures that exceeded 2,000 de to
be able to melt this B salt into
basically like glass obsidian on the
surfaces which is what we're seeing now
some some are going to argue right now
at this point and I want to play Devil's
Advocate they're going to say well fires
can do that well if you go to that that
area of the world that I'm talking about
around Lake vaugh there are no trees
there are no there's no wood W right so
if wood back then well if they had built
they built out a mud brick on top of
these existing structures okay and they
Incorporated them in and we're going to
get much more deep deeper into this as
we go along but it's say you had Timber
and things built into the mud brick
still how would you have enough heat to
be able to do that you're talking about
extreme extreme temperature gradients
but Al also the stones are severely
degraded severely weathered and degraded
from these these events now it's either
things like a plasma event we could talk
about and you mentioned an impact and I
won't completely throw that off the
table but there's a Third Way um a
massive massive volcanic eruption and
that very same thing happened with a
mountain called Mount nemat just to the
southwest of Lake vau which is where all
these sites are surrounding um which is
not the same Mountain n that has all the
statues on the summit there's actually
two mount nems in Turkey which is a
little bit frustrating um this is a
different Mount nroth that doesn't have
any ancient stuff within it but it has a
giant giant crater uh in which it
exploded and you learn that that
mountain last exploded at during the end
of the pine during the younger and older
dras really and theoretically a volcanic
explosion could layer the Earth in this
sort of uh sheath of you know black Smo
and and and and and block you know
cosmic rays and you know
cause all sorts of geological and
environmental changes is that right that
that that on top of if you're close
enough to the explosion self you could
have unbelievable amounts of heat get
expelled from massive eruptions like
that I mean have you ever seen um if you
watch documentaries on Mount St Helens
right when it erupted people were 5 10
miles away observing it and some of them
were like were died from the heat y
completely died trying to trying to
photograph it as that plume of um super
super heated air like thousands of
degrees was thrust down and and spread
around the environment it it it was
enough to literally kill people and burn
them vaporize them partially so did that
get us out of the Ice Age what we're
looking at is a series of two major
major events and you have a sheet right
in front of you now the younger dras is
consistently talked about by by Graham
and Randall and others but I would like
to point out that I believe equally as
important is the older dras now there
it's part of the same time period now
the older dras was 14 around 14 and a
half thousand years ago whereas the
younger dras is like 12,000 years ago
but they're within the same time period
but I think they played together in a
very specific way where the younger dras
is more like huge impacts on the end of
a cycle and the older dras are these
huge impacts on the beginning of a cycle
and they both played critical critical
roles in ending the last ice age which
was uh very very extensive in places
like North America and parts of Northern
Europe with um both the Eurasian and low
and tight ice sheets how long was the
Ice Age just for the audience well the
Ice Age was well over 20,000 years now
not contrary to what some might believe
there wasn't ice just covering the
entire northern hemisphere in fact one
of the one of the uh anomalies that I
want to point out that's very
interesting is that the ice was
centralized around areas that you would
never imagine like for instance Northern
Siberia was Ice free right one of the
coldest places on Earth that we have
today was completely ice free the ice
was focused around uh if you were to say
a focal point would have been Greenland
now that has led to a lot of U theories
and hypothesis regarding that the North
nor pole the pole was actually over
Greenland and not where it is in the
Arctic now which would mean that we had
a different type of hemispheric effect
where this the ice sheets and where
different things were and that may have
been part of what shifted the axis of
the earth do not underestimate the
weight of miles of ice I mean the
laurentide ice sheet in North America is
estimated to a Bend somewhere between 2
and three miles deep covering all of
Canada down into parts the northern
United States um and of course
continuing up into Greenland and then
you have the Eurasian ice sheet but
these ice masses are some of the largest
that Earth has ever had and when you
have that much weight you can actually
cause enough to not only depress um
supressed
surfaces down into the ground but you
can cause so much weight that it's like
it almost causes like a a spinning uh
spinning uh you know sphere to cause to
almost wobble on itself because it has
too much weight on the Northern on the
on the on the top side interesting and
so this you had the ice age for 20,000
years what exactly happens in the older
dest and then what happens in the
younger Dyas in your assessment well
what we and I've I'm someone that's
spent uh the last 10 years extensively
studying climatic events U geologic
climatic events but specifically through
two things the Antarctic Ice cores which
by the way you can go back to 450,000
years to on those ice cors which is
insane to see that that's the oldest ice
cap on Earth Bar None and that's why I
don't believe the civilizations were
into Antarctica because of we we have
ice cords showing how old that ice cap
is okay and and that is why I think
mountains look like pyramids there is
because there's been almost there's been
little to no erosion by wind or rain or
anything they're almost like these giant
mountains made out of certain stones
that have been almost stuck in in an ice
cap and haven't been able to weather now
the Antarctica conspiracy theorists are
going to be very disappoint I know
they'll be sad about that one um now but
you know what we need now we need real
science being brought into this and
that's what I would like to bring to
this conversation now Greenland the
Greenland ice cap is only 20,000 years
old hence the last ice age around 20,000
years during that is that formed 20,000
years ago which means that we only have
ice records from Greenland cores for
20,000 years but we get a snapshot of it
to look back and see what it was like
now what we find is that 145,000 years
ago carbon spiked astronomically on the
planet and this is going to this is
again getting into when we look at
modern times of people talking about how
humans are the only reason why the
climate in carbon is increasing that's
absolutely not the case if anything we
had carbon um carbon spikes 14 and half
thousand years ago that completely dwarf
the time we're in right now and how that
could happen is I think based on
increased massive amounts of sunlight
hitting the Earth uh melting things like
you know increasing letting like methane
off in the atmosphere increasing uh
plant growth and other things would
create a lot of different you know
Carbon creating this carbon Dio carbon
dioxide increase and also what we found
is that in Antarctic Ice cores every
single time that these Mass spikes of
carbon occur we get um temperatures that
then follow right after right after now
14 half th000 years ago we had a spike
in which temperatures went from some of
the coldest we've ever seen and you can
see it right in front of you on that
sheet some of the coldest we've ever
seen to levels that were even warmer
than we are now whoa in but in only like
a couple hundred years so how does that
happen AC Ral mass ejection is the
magnetosphere of the earth which
protects us from the Sun is that
weakening is there a pole shift that
causes the magnet of the Earth the
weekend there are all sorts of theories
what do you think I believe that a
massive CME event unlike anything that
we've ever seen in modern human history
hit the earth why do you think that well
because if you look at the spike it's
immediately at at 145,000 years ago
during the older dras it's immediately
followed by a drop so drastic that that
it ends up being colder than even the
Ice Age so you're talking about
temperatures that go from an ice age
that rise warmer than even now but only
that only remain for let's say a hundred
years or less and then drop colder
instantly so colder than than even the
Ice Age was why would that point to a
coronal M injection because if you have
a huge amount of heat that hits the
Earth and again again that could also
potentially argue an impact but let's
say one of the two okay you would what
what what could only thing that could
cause that to happen is if you have an
enormous amount of fresh water from
glaciers like hence the ice age that
melts instantly into the oceans
disrupting ocean currents across the
world and basically collapsing things
like the Gulf Stream the Gulf Stream for
those who don't know is this
unbelievably warm current
uh of water that comes off of the
Caribbean and off of Florida and it
Dives Northeast and then basically rides
over the Atlantic and it's the only
reason why people can live in Iceland
and in Scandinavia that area would be a
complete uh Barren ice Wasteland if it
wasn't for that it's a warm um propeller
of energy right that rides up and we
have ocean currents all over the world
and ocean currents play a very pivotal
role in moving Heat around the planet
and also stabilizing things like the
climate in fact I think one of the
things that's most um not not understood
about our climate is the role that o
that currents play with the oceans in
our in our weather in our climate of the
earth and that's why if for instance we
had enough fresh water melt into and
shut off the Gulf Stream it would be
enough to destabilize U basically the
entire planet it's a it's a very
fine-tuned system of heat being driven
down and moving up through and like it's
a whole system but if an asteroid you
know if we hit a comet from the T meteor
stream and that would also cause some
you know quick up versus the coronal
mass injection why are you waiting it
you know in favor of coronal mass
injection well I've never seen I've
never been able to find any any evidence
of any impact any impact craters
anywhere in the earth that are from that
age now Graham had brought up the one in
Greenland but we know that one is over a
million years old underneath the ice cap
right cuz the green ice cap is 20,000
years old so that would take that one
off the table now that doesn't mean that
a a torid meteor shower couldn't have
explosions midair right like we see in
tusta in the 19 early 1900s that's
possible too but the reason I always I
lean towards CME events cor mass
ejection events is based around these
areas of vitrification and what we
believe I believe is um evidence of
plasma discharges all around the world
and that that's how you would
essentially get poles moving from
Antarctica or sorry from the Arctic over
to Greenland is you would have these
events where the entire magnetosphere of
the earth basically gets um severely
weakened and then holes open up and then
you get these vitrification types of
events and others and that to me the
evidence is much more leaning towards a
CME event than an impact which would be
more localized to certain areas of the
Earth not on this global scale makes
sense where do you see the plasma all
over the world we see plasma events
again some of the best evidences out of
um Bolivia out of um out of uh turkey
around Kev kesi and others and we see it
in Egypt as well there are these giant
statues they're actually the largest um
stone statues in the world called the
colassi of mnon and they have burn marks
only on the northeast side which it
lends us to Poss to the possibilities
that these um massive heat areas that
opened up with the ozone may have come
from the Northeast but we still can't
date the plasma right no of course we
can't we can't date that but we can
potentially start to date other things
like for instance um maybe we can date
soil cores from Lake vau or maybe we can
date um uh cores of some of some of
these Stones uh you cuz if you can can
bore in you can't date a stone from the
outside but if you can bore into it you
can potentially find things like uh
organic matter deep deep within very
microscopic cracks and you you have more
of an ability to date them that's how
GOC teepe was dated the only reason they
were able to date gockley teepe is
because the site was believed to be
buried you can only date organic matter
if it's covered up and concealed because
if it's out and it's being exposed to
the elements it alter its entire uh
chemistry and you can't date it the same
way and what we're looking at right now
is the potential that places like kef
kesi and even ionis and we can get into
that as we go along may have been
deliberately buried at a later time
interesting so are you hopeful that we
can date parts of these monuments that
have been covered up because you can it
seems like date organic matter that's
been buried yeah I think that we're
going to be having increasing
capabilities revolving around being able
to to date these and then using all
capabilities how do you do that well we
have new technologies coming out that
are enable us to be able to look at
these things in a different way there's
always new things happening with
understanding um the breakdown of carbon
organic matter based on uh radioactivity
and other things to find dating but I
also think that maybe maybe some of the
techniques that we're just coming into
is understanding where certain sediments
in different cores can help us with
dating and I think that those
Technologies and things and I'm not an
expert in that I don't want to pretend
to be um to be able to understand that
those things can potentially be dated
but only if they come from specific
environments in which something unique
excuse me something unique occurred in
which they were protected does Robert
shock agree with your coronal mass
ejection Theory Robert that's Robert
shock actually that he's the one who
really was one of the the top Pioneers
um his book forgotten civilizations is
the basis behind almost the entire book
was that and I can go into it briefly is
that when they were in uh Easter Island
um his wife Katie they were looking at
this what was thought to be a writing
called rango rango okay it's a type of
writing out of Easter Island and when
they were comparing it to things even
like the nasca lines in Peru and other
um other areas like maybe Mahendra daro
and other types of mysterious writings
that don't look like writings one of the
theories that they came up with is that
they're not actually writings at all
they're plasma
discharg uh designs in the sky because
we know that um electricity follows very
specific patterns who wait you're saying
that the nascal lines were like burned
into the surface of the Earth no they
were imitating potential plasma
discharge events in the sky really
because maybe they believed that those
areas were touched by these are those
events and maybe they thought they were
sacred or they were were they were
showing them if these things plasma
discharges in the atmosphere let me let
me give some background on this for a
second well we should and also just for
the audience's sake NASA I believe was
like 200 BC to 600 adish or something
it's in Peru and uh you have these all
these amazing it seems like artwork that
only Mak sense from an aerial view and
they you know over wide distances and
seems you know like it would involve
some sort of precocious astronom IAL or
artistic knowledge to make and it's this
big sort of mystery that will play
endlessly on Gaia and you know History
Channel yeah I used to work a GU for two
and a half years did you really
interested I I wrote I worked on shows
like ancient civilizations check out
season season four and five if you want
to see some of me in
that work that explains you're kind of
like you have the trippiness and then
you also have the you know hardcore you
know I think what's really important is
marrying uh stuff that comes from
instinct to resarch and empiricism and
that's I think good science and I think
it's kind of an alchemical process
because it comes from the inside but
then it's being extremely rigorous about
you know I had this intuition but I'm
not superimposing that onto reality well
and also the the aspect of the
metaphysical nature of reality right I
think that's a very uh it ends up being
not really uh married together with the
science aspect they tend to like be very
separated right oh the science aspect
we're going to look at only the physical
third dimension aspects of Science and
evidence but really there like a lot of
things that are disconnecting is how
metaphysical sides of of of the universe
and our like Spirit right and and and
those Concepts have to have to connect
and play in yeah and we paint over the
past with a modern epistemic brush and
we say you know these sites were just
you know the they were built in these
sort of materialist reductionist ways
and they were used for sort of prosaic
reasons we have no idea how these people
from the past actually thought and the
word Gaia actually you know I like it in
the context of Gaia Theory you know
James Lovelock you know late 19th
century that the Earth itself is
somewhat alive or just at least
extremely resilient that's what the
Ancients believed they called it Tiamat
or Gaia Gaia was the the Greek term but
they believed that it was a living uh
type of being that's not like us and
they also believe that the sun is just
the same thing m um they're like
entities and then in ancient cultures
had names for them like utu was the name
for the sun god an ancient suer but let
me get back to something that we were
talking about that I think is important
the plasma events okay when you when if
you if the Earth was going to get hit by
one of these massive CME events which
we've it's interesting how the Aurora
Borealis is further south than we've
seen it in a very very long time right
now people are freaking out right and
that's potentially you know this guy on
Twitter um space weather news yeah you
know what I'm talking about he's
freaking out about you know and I I
never know how seriously it take I mean
clearly we've seen more more more solar
activity this year than than ever and it
seems to be ramping up and you have all
these flares um and he attributes that
to a weakening of the magnetosphere of
the earth and I I agree and because if
you look at the should we be freaked out
Mt or the world about if you look at the
great year which again is about it's
about 25 and a half to 6 26,000 years
right uh half of that is cuz it's like
it's call it 20 25,000 but it's like
24,600 half of that is 12,000 with
change uh these events that occurred
during the younger dras with what I
believe was the last CME event um was 12
and a half thousand years ago so we're
literally exactly in that time period
and we're seeing these extreme warming
and these uh these plasma likee type of
weakening of the magnetosphere type of
events just like we saw then this is not
at all scientific this is purely my own
like you know it's like asserting free
will or something like that something I
I sort of refuse to go outside the
bounds of so it's I'll admit this is
kind of dogmatic but like I just don't
believe that every 12,500 years there's
just a hard reset button like we've got
to have some sort of agency around let
me I can go into that if you want to I
actually have some evidence you probably
haven't heard of yet that might blow
your mind on that please okay so again
like I mentioned there's always
indications that these things are going
to happen way ahead of time right CO2
spikes temperatures Spike you get these
geomagnetic events with these Aurora
Borealis right you see them now the next
level and if we start seeing this we
need to worry is plasma discharge
designs in the sky which is what I was
just talking about with what was Dr Dr
Robert shock's theory on like a wrango
wrango text and even potentially the
nascal lines is that they're actually
these geometric formations that occur in
the sky based on massive amounts of what
are called charged solar particles that
come into our upper atmosphere and they
create these very interesting
electromagnetic designs okay now I want
to discuss um something that might be
new to you um and if you're interested
in seeing an image of what I'm talking
about it's on the the the bottom of my
main page of my website the stageof
time.com in 1987 there was an
encyclopedia that came out called a new
Science Encyclopedia okay and this is
back before computers really up and
running or we didn't have that
capability so information you really got
through like encyclopedias right that's
where things came through well it had
this unbelievable image on I think page
2,488 if something like that where it
showed and it didn't say really much
about it all it said is um the following
image is a diagram based on Pioneer 10
and 11 probes okay and then it said like
oh we sent out a plaque on it blah blah
blah well what it shows and I can get
into what Pioneer 10 and 11 found
because it directly relates to this
entire great year this entire cycle and
how might help you understand why this
stuff keeps happening at 12,000 to
12,500 years every time interesting okay
yeah is that what they found and this
may be new to people and it may blow a
lot of minds and I would again encourage
people to go to my website and see that
image by the way which is very hard to
find online it was seemed like it was
scrubbed across a lot of things I ended
up digging in and finding a pdf version
of it that was like somebody might have
emailed it to me or whatever um where I
got a high def definition version of it
and then I scanned it and then I
uploaded it and like so like we need to
preserve this right where was it taken
exactly well um okay I'll I'll go back
and tell you how this started yeah in um
in the
1970s there were the first probes ever
in history that were sent out in deep
space it's funny to me how people have
only heard of Voyager right they're like
oh Voyager Voyager no Pioneer the
Pioneer came before Voyager hence the
name Pioneer it was the first deep Spa
deep space probes we ever sent out into
Interstellar space okay you have if you
think about neighborhoods of space the
area between us and the Sun is this
actually quite small little neighborhood
the um our outer solar system is this
whole other vast area beyond the Sun
that then basically is bordered by
What's called the Kyper belt right I'm
sure Graham talked about that being
impacted by the torid meter shower right
torid meter shower comes through and one
of the theories is it can bump around
some of these Kyper Bell objects which
are giant giant asteroids uh and comets
in the outer outer part of our solar
system that basically dwarf our our
asteroid belt around Mars that is like
nothing compared to this okay
well Pioneer 10 gets sent out One
Direction and Pioneer 11 gets sent out
another Direction and they were
basically sent out to study
gravitational protrusions on the outer
planets of Uranus and Neptune they
wanted to understand wait what the heck
why are these Giant Gas planets tilted
on their axis and then as you get closer
to the inner solar system and I'm not a
I'm not an astrophysicist but I can fill
in some blanks here um why they would be
tilted on their a say something
gravitationally is affecting them right
is it our sun wait it can't be our sun
how can they be tilted like that and in
fact our entire solar system is tilted
slightly on on an axis so what happened
is they send they send out the probes in
the early in during the 1970s both of
them they send them in completely
different directions remember space is
3D so it's not like a linear paper right
it's got Mass it's it's got everything
so you have to go different directions
to try to understand how to create like
a model right mhm well in the early
1980s Pioneer 10 and 11 made history
because they were the first probes to
leave our inner solar system okay so
they they get out past the gravitational
influences of the Sun and they they
start passing out passing Beyond uh the
Kyper belt and when they do that boy did
they find something now you I'm
surprised I'm not surprised you haven't
heard of it actually very few have what
do they find well the thing is funny
about it is that if you go and look look
up Pioneer 10 11 you're not going to
find very much information and I don't
want to necessarily just spend a lot of
time going down a conspiracy Road here
but I will tell you that it seems
apparent that the internet was scrubbed
of information regarding Pioneer 1011
what evidence do you have well there was
an astronomer out of NASA yeah um
actually out of um yeah named Thomas um
two astronomers one named Thomas van
lter and the other named Robert
Harrington Robert Harrington was a very
very um important uh astronomer who
worked for the Navy sorry not not NASA
for the Navy he was a chief astronomer
for the Navy okay well he's studying the
outer solar system he gets a call one
day from Thomas van flandern Thomas van
flandern is an astronomer as well who's
actually a very interesting man I wish
he got more attention very smart used to
talk about even things like ancient
history being different than we're told
and things like that very smart guy um
he calls up Robert Harton he's like hey
Robert you gotta check out this data
from Pioneer 10 right there's something
going on um in the outer solar system
and Robert uh Robert Harrington's like
okay I'll look into it and they look
into this new data that's coming back
from Pioneer 10 and they their minds are
blown okay what Pioneer 10 found and 11
was not only a planet okay now I don't
want this to be confused with things
like uh Zechariah sit's idea of Nibiru
that that was actually a whole another
story in itself of something I think was
maybe even created to mislead this whole
thing okay there's no planet that comes
through our inner solar system that
would destroy everything no um but what
they did find is a large planet beyond
the Kyper belt okay part of what is
called the outer solar system not
something that has a lot of information
in fact the Kyper belt wasn't found
until the early
1990s it's relatively new that we even
knew that again based on uh a lot of the
data coming back from the Pioneer probes
which started to leave that area in the
in the in the in the early 80s and
through that period
now there in the 90s there was an
announcement by NASA and I do believe
this was a real announcement where they
did announce this planet and they called
it Planet n or Planet 10 based on before
Pluto got demoted and they actually and
I don't if anybody listening to this
might remember that there was it was
actually pretty widespread on the news
they're like oh there's this large uh
Planet beyond our sun that is uh very
mysterious it seems to have a mass based
on gravitational influences of four to
five times the size of Earth massive
huge Planet okay very weird and
mysterious wait where is it positionally
it's it's beyond Pluto yes way Beyond
Pluto okay it's in it's way beyond our
inner solar system and it's not part of
the rotation around the Sun at all wow
it's very very mysterious okay so what
sort of gravitational pull is it
following we wait wait till you find out
this is where it get the same causing
the wobble this is where it gets
Wild on this in the same analysis and
remember Pioneer data was coming in in
increments over time as you're going
further out you get more data so it's
not like you know everything right away
it's like figuring things out so the
first thing they found was this planet
and they they they initially announced
it okay and everyone's like oh whoa how
how that how could that be possible um
well the interesting thing was that the
even the Kyper Bell a lot of the objects
in the Kyper Bell were being warped in
their in their the way that they um
rotate their Mass was being warped by
something else and they some postulated
that this planet was enough to even
impact and affect some of these Kyper
belt objects but there's more though
the planet seems to be seem to be
revolving around something okay and
again I very much encourage people to go
and see this diagram so they don't think
I'm full of crap when in what I'm saying
right now because again this 1987
encyclopedia showed the entire diagram
but the weird thing was it was the only
place that it ever existed ever again
all the data from Pioneer was
essentially scrubbed after what was it
orbiting around well when scientists
have studied are uh the known universe
okay I'll say that because we only have
a limited view of what we can see with
distant stars but when they've studied
other stars like Sirius and other ones
kenis major they find out that 80% of
all known stars are binary or trary
meaning that having a single star or sun
is actually far more rare you would have
an 80% chance that wouldn't be the case
you saying we are in a binary solar
system there's another there's another
star that we're not aware of another sun
and but the thing is that when okay when
Pioneer 10 and 11 got far enough out
Beyond this planet that they detected
and if you can't see it it's just based
on its gravitational influences again
they never you can't see like oh there's
a bright Planet flying by it doesn't
work that way the planets if they don't
if planets are not illuminated by some
kind of an object they're black yeah
they're just it's just the space is
black and you don't even know except the
influence it has when web pick it up
well again you'd have the space is is
infinitely difficult to pin down a very
specific part and I can get into all the
Caltech studies after that support this
okay okay so this is not just one area
Caltech has since jumped on top of this
you can go on caltech's website and read
all about how this planet is um I one of
the one of theot name of the planet one
of the well they don't have a name they
call it Planet 10 originally now Planet
N9 based on the demotion of Pluto okay
okay Caltech actually one of the
astronomers there was basically said
that he believes there a 99% N9 chance
that it exists based on its effects on
the Kyper Bell and other gravitational
effects and it's four to five times
larger than the earth okay so NASA
announces that yeah then they go
completely quiet they never announce
anything else ever again from Pioneer 10
in fact all data on Pioneer 10 and 11
pass the Kyper belt Beyond
this Robert Harrington's work and Thomas
van flandern and uh 1987 science
intervention is cyclopedia became the
only sources it was very bizarre if you
have something of that much importance
that finds things to not have any
information as again screaming towards
some kind of a scrubbing of information
a hiding why would why would they cover
this because they found something what
they find well according to the diagram
in 1987 encyclopedia the way that
Pioneer 10 and by the way Pioneer 10 had
these spectrometers on board that were
literally made to detect objects which
is very interesting because if they're
investigating a tilt on Uranus and
Neptune clearly they looking they're
looking for something okay well they
detect a signature of that was
undeniable because there's specific
wording in that diagram and it says and
I I will quote remember tyer 10 and 11
went completely different directions in
our solar system they say they found
equal pole doesn't matter where they
were in our solar system as they left
they found equal pole of something
massive on our entire solar system
something gravitationally is so powerful
that it was basically influencing our
entire solar system including the
sun okay and what they found they called
it a dead star
okay now it's not a brown dwarf it was a
dead star that had uh essentially maybe
Supernova long ago whatever happened to
it it no longer had the fusion of a star
like our sun which is why you can't see
it it literally now you know there's
only two things that can happen to a
star when it dies right it either
explodes or it shrinks down into an
unbelievably dense object but that
object still has very very power
powerful um gravitational
influences well but not everything does
that not everything just becomes a black
hole in fact some scientists believe
that those are more like the center of
galaxies and different things like that
instead this object was identified as a
dead star not as and but and they and
they determined that the distance ready
for this based on its its influence at
the time and this is like
1984 1983 that they that this data came
back cuz the encyc came out encycopedia
came out in ' 87 they determined at that
time that it was 50 billion miles from
her from from the Pioneer probes 50
billion miles okay
now when that
occurred Robert um Thomas F Thomas van
flandern and Robert
Harrington found out about that
now all I will say is that they both
died of throat cancer not within a few
years of each other but they both died
of throat cancer they didn't smoke uh
and they it was a very mysterious thing
because they were the only two people
that were investigating this outer
planet and potentially this binary star
companion and then there was a man named
Miles SSH who was the head of U that
became a very prominent astronomer in
the department and he was like
everyone's like wait a minute what about
this planet and all this stuff right my
sanish did a bunch of calculations
mathematically and was like you know
what we made a mistake Robert Robert um
Thomas van Flander made a mistake Robert
Robert Harrington made a mistake turns
out all the data is wrong and there's no
Planet that's out there huh Boom the
thing just
disappeared and it was and it like went
completely silent everyone's like okay
never mind what's the motive to cover
this up because I believe it's the
entire reason why the great year exists
and why we have resets of civilizations
and why we have entire cycles of
catastrophes and uh which is based I
believe on what are known as the Yuga
Cycles out of India right the Cali the
call they called the Cali Yuga Cycles
based on civilizations rising and
falling caluga right but there are
various Yuga Cycles yeah yeah yeah so
there the the Yuga Cycles track the
cycles of basically civilization rising
and falling based on these ages during
the great year so you go from right you
rise up to a golden age you get wiped
out you fall back and then you have to
start up again from like an iron and
Bronze Age and then a silver age and
then a gold age and then it resets
itself well what could possibly exist to
keep a
consistency of these Cycles other than
this now think about this for a minute
if you if you if anyone's ever seen it
there's a documentary I highly recommend
called the great year amazing you can go
actually watch it on YouTube uh amazing
amazing documentary has a great narrator
uh who just passed away recently um very
well known uh I can't remember his name
name off my head but uh in that
documentary I believe they got one thing
really really wrong but they got
everything else right they postulated
that the great year was based on a dance
of uh our binary companion but these
thought it was serious now that makes no
sense to me at all because first of all
serious is so far away it's makes 50
billion miles of this binary look like
it's in our it's in our backyard so that
makes zero sense to me that that's
related to the great year in the dance
of our sun so I want to just point that
out however what does make sense is that
this dead star having this massive
dance called parhelion and aelion
parhelion is when something comes the
closest and appah helion is when it's
leaving well it turns out that in the
great in the greate documentary ancient
civilizations believed that that entire
dance was based on they called it a our
black son they called it you ever heard
of black hle black Sun Bowie right black
Sun's also kind of this age old the cult
symbol well they that turns out there's
some truth in this that there was
knowledge of a black of a of a Dark Star
a partner star to our own
Sun some say the binary model confirms
all of our Celestial observations
without the need for excessive torque or
epicycle type explanations while the
concept of a second sun challenges our
present understanding of the solar
system it is hardly a new idea there's
one sun which is part of the planetary
system and there's one sun outside the
solar system and this allows mithas to
both be the Sun and also seem to be
operating for the Sun or on behalf of
the Sun the Ancients had some knowledge
on it there's different areas even the
um there's there's a whole bunch of
areas we that would be a whole part of
the show but I just want to say and not
not getting that but just say that
basically that there seems to be a dance
between this dead binary star with our
sun and every time that that dance is
based on a 25,000 approximately 25,000
year full cycle now half of that during
Peri helion is 12,500 years when it
comes the closest to our sun in which I
theorize that that is the reason why our
sun goes through these
massive energetic explosions of if you
have an object like our sun that is very
very powerful with like a like almost
like a nuclear fusion type of energy
right if you have a lot of energy coming
toward towards it and gravitational
influences the only way it's going to be
able to maintain itself is to be able to
exhaust that energy which is why I
believe that this binary is the reason
why these consistent events every 12,000
12,500 years or so you know even even 14
they're they're all in that realm are
occurring on a consistent basis but the
yugas are different lengths aren't they
they're based on the rise and fall of
civilizations consciously and they and
there's other I'm not that's not the
only factor that goes into the yugas
there's galactic center alignments
there's planetary alignments it's not
just one thing and so it's not the
weakening of the magnetosphere of the
earth necessarily it's the need for the
sun to expel Mass to a gravit which then
weakens which then weakens which in turn
then weakens and I believe that is what
caused the entire destruction of
Mars because Mars used to clearly have
water clear really had life right you
can actually see some images if the
rover images are actually even from Mars
that have trilobites in some of the
areas on there and uh one of the very
well-known and accepted you know
theories is that Mars once had an
atmosphere it took the brunt of a
massive CME event that stripped the
entire atmosphere and then basically had
the water evaporate out into space and
then it turned into this Barren Planet
but not only that but um it may have
been based completely on a plasma events
and I I want to just mention that is
that there is a trench a gorge on Mars
called Vias marinaras okay that is
there's like five times deeper than the
Grand Canyon Okay and it is the feather
design of it may actually be based on a
massive type of plasma like events which
can literally impact
entire planets if it's bad enough and
create scarring and even mountains based
on if you they've shown studies with how
electricity impacts things they create
like a feather-like environment or they
even create bulges almost like um types
of emergences of land moving up and down
by by the types of energy that can
impact it now Mars is covered in
billions to trillions of just these
rocks scattered across the planet all
the planet like they were thrown out in
a lot left in the atmosphere but then
others literally fell back down onto the
planet and it looks like that that
planet is is an perfect example of how
these CMA CME events can destroy an
entire
planet so you realize the implications
of what you're saying you're saying that
NASA figured out that we're actually
living in these sort of civilizational
cycles that we really have no control
over they're kind of these hard resets
exactly maybe we're headed towards one
right now and in ordering and in order
to cover it up they blocked all
knowledge of the binary star companion
so that that whole cycle would not be
understood that's insane is it though I
don't know I mean I need to I need if
there was an asteroid details and I'm
not I'm not saying this an apocalyptic
way because I would actually the next
part of this is we should talk about how
I believe we may be able to prevent that
okay what I mean is if you knew about if
governments knew about a giant asteroid
coming towards the Earth or a
would they tell everybody Maybe not
maybe not Widespread Panic complete um
uh Society
collapsing and it's you're of the
opinion that this dead star is headed
towards the sun now yes and so do you
have you know based on your cycles of
what we see in in in ice cores
throughout Antarctica and greenand of a
consistency and what's your model of how
much time we have left based on that
we're right in it right now so like very
interesting how Consciousness seems to
rise at the same time that the Sun
starts to emit more energy and and this
gets into like again lost civilizations
what they knew yeah right uh I actually
believe that part of the function of the
Great Pyramid of Giza and other
structures um was a balancing the energy
yeah of the Earth yeah and that maybe
they had understood that these Cycles
exist because okay let me give example
yeah uh in hermeticism one of the core
there's these there's these laws that
exist hermeticism is ancient Greek
Knowledge from Hermes which is basically
just Egyptian knowledge as well it's the
same thing they they believe Hermes was
based on both exactly so The Emerald
Tablets they believed that Cycles govern
everything okay that the law of car
correspondence governs everything that
there's these that there are these Core
Concepts right that that are woven into
everything they're just that's the way
it is that's how it's designed right and
we can even get into the nature of that
I known of a problem that with that but
that there is an actual very intelligent
design behind our universe and that the
Earth is actually a lot more important
than we we know that it's part of again
we are talking about like a soulle
Incarnation Place through Orion and that
it's not just necessarily happening
everywhere else but that it's this is a
very important place and that we are not
the only ones that are um governing that
that there's something higher that's
governing uh the Cycles here and balance
because that's everything that's shown
in these artifacts and things that we're
about to talk about from around Lake
vaugh is it literally shows the same
thing over and over and over again it
shows this
balancing of everything balance and uh
basically teaching Humanity about the
nature of who we really are and being
like bringing us back to the light like
if we were if our if our soulle journey
was like basically starting at a higher
place and then wandering through the
darkness and then eventually returning
back to the light again all everything's
based on cycles and it seems like we are
the microcosm our journey here is like a
microcosm of the entire
macrocosm that and so we are playing a
bigger role than we know and at the same
token I believe that also lends itself
to not having us be as afraid that we
could just poof be wiped off and never
exist again and it doesn't matter well
you you just implied that maybe the
pyramid was some sort of possible
preventative measure I mean are you
familiar with Christopher Dunn yeah I am
very much so so does that relate to this
because he has this theory that you know
the pyramid was maybe kind of an energy
generation machine he went on Rogan I
thought he made a pretty good case I I
support I support those connections in
in many ways um for instance under the
Great Pyramid and under many of these
structures we have Subterranean water
like aquifers right that are basically
conductor and they were they were
covered in Limestone and they had
Granite which has a quartz in it it
seems very much a function of geometry
and physics to create something so but
how would that save the Earth from this
massive Death Star well it it didn't
yeah let me give you an example if you
go to Sakara Egypt right you can go down
to What's called the serapium I'm sure
you've heard of that right actually okay
so the serapium is this Subterranean
area you can go there today as they do
tours down there and you walk down in
these all these steps to go down in
there and you have these Chambers under
the ground that were carved out and in
those chambers are these giant Granite
boxes okay built out of granite that
came from Awan and the granite is so
large that it's bigger than the
entrances to even go down in these
places which is completely mysterious on
how they carved them moved them because
these Granite boxes weigh up to 100
tons one ton is 2,000 lb they're very
very mysterious but anyway there's a
whole multitude of these of these down
there and they have no evidence of any
Pharaoh or anyone being in them like
like finding a mummy or anything right
these Chambers are mysterious but what
is interesting about them is that many
of them were found blown up like
exploded like a lot of energy had surged
through and blown them up and if that's
the case
then one of the things we're discussing
is that maybe
Egypt played a really pivotal role in
trying to balance energy
somehow now that's based on well that's
based on what are called lay lines now
geodesi is also based on that concept is
that the the Earth is what's called a
tural field of energy okay so the energy
of the earth basic Bas on its magnetism
properties the energy flows out from
Antarctica down and comes up and in from
an uh the Arctic up in the north so it's
like this right comes down like that and
that if you were able to understand the
properties of geodesi and properties of
lay lines that you could somehow build
in specific places and maybe even
balance them harness them have a have a
way to building coherence with the earth
and the stars but if you have a massive
coronal mass ejection heading towards
the Earth how much balancing can save
you well I mean perhaps they tried and
or they just were trying to survive
understanding that there was a previous
event that their ancestors had known
about and that gets into the entire
discussion of Darren kuyu and kley okay
do you know where Darren cuyu and K
Mockley are no who are they well their
locations okay okay so this this again
gives the evidence for that the ancient
people knew about these events okay oh
Darren kuyu is the underground T turkey
yeah yeah so yeah which and Hancock even
talks about how you know possibly a
civilization went underneath there to
protect themselves a lot of people don't
talk about K Mockley and I want to talk
about both because they're very the the
connection they have is absolutely
fascinating in southern turkey there's
an area of soft volcanic Stone now now
Mo most of the time volcanic stone is
hard but this area it was like a type of
very soft kind of volcanic porous type
of material that was actually really
easy to carve and it seems as though
ancient civilizations if they were
Global which I believe they were seemed
to know that was the only place in the
earth based on its elevation its
location and the stone that they could
easily well we say easily but relatively
easy compar to other environments create
massive Subterranean areas and I mean
Mass massive and so in within the last
40 years there was a man in this the
city that became the underground city of
Darren cuyu because it's this modern
City built right on top of it that's
what's Wild is that they're like living
right above it and they didn't even know
he's he's basically working on his
apartment and he knocks a wall down
accidentally and he opens up this
doorway opening that he was like trying
to figure out what happened because he
had chickens that wandered in and disapp
appeared it was really funny actually
and he didn't understand where they were
going or whatever and so he went down in
and he ends up going and you know use
calling and like I found something
archaeology you got to come see this so
they come over and they and they were
stunned to find the largest Subterranean
underground city we call it a city but
Subterranean area in the world it it had
something like 30 levels of these
interchanging uh tunnels but like r
rooms that had air shafts had entire
ways to block off and seal the outside
with these multi-ton stones that were
basically fitted so you could roll them
in front of the door and they had areas
for animals and animals uh places for uh
like education like schools and they had
places for bedding and living and and
food storage and they went to Such Great
Lengths that they built these
underground city so big that they could
house over 20,000 people that's crazy at
one time how big are they they're
they're basically kilometers down wow
they're enormous kilometers down how how
far like wide wide kilometer wide like
kilometer down I I don't have the exact
dimensions of it they're enormous though
okay and you can still go there today
and there's a tourist attraction where
you can obviously go down into Daren cuu
but they only let you see a couple
levels uhhuh now here's the Wild Thing
where where who who figured out that
20,000 number they went and
archaeologists that have access to all
the levels have basically determined how
many people could live in all of them
they ma them out you can actually find
online diagrams where they show all of
them interconnected but it gets even
more wild than that yeah Daren KU is not
the only one turns out there's a whole
bunch of underground cities in that
region but there's two main ones the
other the sister city to Daren cuu is
called kimley okay now kimley was found
just a few years later but here's the
wild thing it's five and a half miles
away okay why is that wild because
underneath Darren kuyu is a main
Corridor there's like a main Corridor
like if you had a buildings attach each
other right and there's a tunnel that
goes from Darren kuyu all the way to
kimley whoa 5 and a half miles
underground crazy which means that those
people knew enough about how they
couldn't go above ground hey I want to
go see uh I want to go see your cousin
John and K moley I'm and Darren kuu
right I haven't visited him in a long
time why would they just go up and go
around instead they literally travel
underground between them and the only
reason you would do that is if it wasn't
safe to be above
ground and now why wouldn't it safe to
be above ground I don't think it's based
on flooding I think it's based on the
concept of like a nuclear
winter right where you would basically
be so volatile not only like potentially
radioactivity but even things like a a
catastrophic climate that was just
dipping all over the place and like it
was almost completely inhospital to live
out there and the idea is that they
built these to survive these events and
that the only reason they did that is
because a previous event their ancestors
had survived through and then they told
them and like you know hey if we're
going to survive the next one we need to
build these underground cities which
that area of turkey is literally in the
center of the ancient world when do you
think these underground cities were
built that's the ultimate question
nobody knows and here's the weird thing
none of the material from these giant
underground cities that they excavated
has ever been found it's not like they
went up to the front and they found like
this huge pile of rock weird like hey
look at that we can they why would why
wouldn't some of you know their tools
and stuff be preserved given that never
nothing has ever been found why is that
well because things degrade we have to
imagine geologic time Underground though
you'd assume maybe you still have mice
and rats and things and you have water
dripping and you it's we're we need to
try to
imagine it's been 500 years right since
you know we went through the Industrial
Revolution and back to Medieval Times
back to then and look at all we've
achieved in then okay that 500-year
period now imagine thousands and
thousands and thousands of years yeah
you know potentially 10,000 years I
believe that those were built well over
10,000 years ago over I mean they had to
to me they had to have been built before
the younger dras catastrophes because
there'd be no other because we haven't
had anything like that since well that
would be my gu again I'm not I'm a total
amateur when it comes to this stuff but
I would guess that a greater percentage
of things would be preserved if the
thing it's an underground city and if
it's above ground it's just less
environmental kind of but the problem is
they were
reused okay and this is where scientists
are what I I believe have gotten the
dating completely wrong how do you know
know that they were reused because then
when they went down when they first
found them and they went down in they
did find stuff they found uh evidence of
Hittites and evidence of um ancient
cultures that are not like Ancient
Ancient they're like mid- ancient right
so you know Hittites and different time
period of that we're talking like you
know maybe 2,500 3,000 years ago right
they found evidence of uh residency from
them where they were maybe hiding from
armies or going on there for for many
reasons it was a very dangerous time uh
many much of the world the Assyrian and
urartian uh and uh medes culture and the
uh Babylonians and all these cultures
were battling fighting it was a very
volatile time period in history and so
yeah you could have cultures try to hide
down there it wouldn't be the best idea
but I'm sure some did um and so that may
have actually been one of the reasons
why it was kind of covered up and and
not found for a long time was because
they were it was one of those places
they were kind of like hiding out or
something right but scientists
archaeologists have determined based on
finding that that that's who built it
which is kind of silly right if Jesse
goes over to an ancient monument and
puts his name on it and then thousand
years later we find that Jesse's name is
still like carved into it did Jesse
build it not necessarily no if like it
doesn't it's kind of a silly
um it was built earlier also well but
the the thing is why would they do that
why build a giant underground city and
go to that kind of length of work if
you're just doing it to hide from an
army somewhere which they could
literally just starve you out and like
block it doesn't make sense stry no you
could literally they could they could
like pour oil in then just like set the
whole inner place on fire all these
different things they could have done um
all various different horrible things
they could have done but the only thing
that makes sense if you look at the
concentration of these underground
cities and how it was a center of the
ancient world is that they would have
had pilgrimages knowing and reading the
stars now that gets back to gockley Tepe
because look at the pillars of quec Tepe
have they're just basically star
constellations isn't it like a sun
calendar it's a calendar it's an
astronomical calendar which I believe
its purpose was my personal opinion is
its purpose was to track the great year
to track cycles and it was it was an
astronomical spot that that was its
purpose is to track Cycles what is the
great year just the concept of a year no
no no no okay so the great year is based
on What's called the procession of the
Equinox it is because how the Earth
wobbles because of the gravitational
influences of this binary companion I
told you the entire the entire solar
system is influenced okay what's the
this is fascinating so basically this
26,000 years cycle where True North
involves a different Star right now it's
Polaris other involves but what's the
conventional astronomical you know
explanation for why you know all these
planets uh you know have kind of
wobbling gravitational uh orbits and how
the entire axis of the solar system is
actually on kind of a wobble it's tilted
not a lot of people talk about it um is
it literally just dismissed is there not
some conven cuz like there's certain
things like how the moon was formed
which is really mysterious actually such
BS when you hear like the conventional
explanation it came together perfectly
at a perfect ratio between the Sun and
Moon and the Earth no it's like well
it's like an asteroid like hit the earth
and then part of the earth came out of
the into this perfect you know thing
impossible makes no sense impossible
into this thing that you know you never
see the dark side of it it's say perfect
you know and it's 1400th the size of the
Earth and it's 400 times closer to the
Earth than the Sun and it it just
doesn't yeah ites the the conventional
explanation you can kind of definitively
say is wrong and then I think where you
have to be emically humble to me at
least I don't have a great Theory Maybe
you do is like I don't know what formed
that thing but what's the conventional
explanation for yeah the wobbling
gravitational axis the the slanted
gravitational axis of the entire solar
system I think a um a the Milky some
kind of a Milky Way interaction of outer
things and inner things with the sun
it's I never I've never heard of
anything definitive that's come from to
explain that if anything I told you that
Miles SSH had said mathematically like
they were like oh they miscalculated all
these things and and then people are
like oh never mind like it's been really
weird can we track the emergence of the
conventional explanation cuz I often
think that's like a really important
again I'm not I'm not an astrophysicist
so like that would be a good question
for others to to bring up with that you
you said there was somebody at Caltech
who soal because I want to interview
that person I don't I I actually emailed
him and he never got back to me and if
he's listening to this um I'm I'm still
open to that man let's let's figure out
how to get in touch with there's a
there's a number of uh experts at
Caltech that's that use mathematics and
based on uh data from probes to study an
outer solar system okay and they
determined that based on the movement of
Kyper belt objects that there're they're
being super skewed and uh perur
perturbed by something okay and that the
way that Caltech and again if anyone
wants to look just look up Caltech in
Planet 10 or Planet 9 it used to be
called Planet 10 then they they demoted
to Planet 9 look into that they have
extremely compelling data that backs all
this up that mathematically planet
planet 10 I'm going to call it 10
because I think Pluto is we should just
keep it whatever whatever it was but um
we'll call it Planet 10 uh that it it
absolutely exists and again why would
you have a planet that's completely
Rogue that's not part of another system
well I'm just even thinking again my
stupid math right like the sun only has
so much gravitational pull Pluto is part
of the sun's you know gravitational uh
field of influence because it's so small
well it looks like it was a moon of
Jupiter that got thrown out beyond that
area but things you know like my guess
would be that something four to five
times the size of the Earth that's
beyond the perimeter of Pluto even Oh
Way Beyond might might have trouble
being part of why would be part of
exactly it makes no sense in fact I
don't I don't know but I I need the sun
plays math on exactly there's no
influence that far out at that point
we're talking about something that would
be like doesn't make any sense that it
would be having a consistent type of uh
elliptical orbit what's the do we know
the conventional explanation there like
well no they've tried to deny that it
exists that's as I've said Caltech is
the only modern in this this thing gets
announced in the 90 I sorry to Har I
think it's so important I know it's
incredibly so he announced in the '90s
NASA's like this is thing you know it's
Planet 10 or whatever and then okay sish
comes in and then he's like it's
actually forget about it and so Planet
10 goes away Planet 10 like people
forget about planet 10 yeah exactly
because of I'm telling you it's because
of mil stannish with this whole idea
that mathematically they made a mistake
and that it never existed pioner Pioneer
never shot Planet 10 it was just they
never they never got footage of it it
was just based on it was just based on
these the wobbling you the gravitational
influence and data is very easy to here
wait take take a look at this I I think
it's would probably be helpful for you
to look at that that that's the page
from it I think it' be cool for you to
see it yeah yeah Pioneer 10 became the
first craft to pass into Interstellar
space in 1983 the diagram shows the path
of the two Pioneer probes on the right
the P the pictorial plaque carried by
Pioneer 10 contains information about
Earth and
Humanity but it says nothing about the
diagram which is so wild you see that so
I'm looking at the diagram if you read
the article Planet 4.7 billion miles and
then look at the dead star
you see how it says equal gravitational
pole equal pull yeah whoa right that's
really trippy and this is an official
NASA release or where is this from this
is from again the science intervention
encyclopedia was it a very prominent
encyclopedia series some some listening
to this probably still have some of
their basement they used to come out
with volumes every year and it would
they would update them and it was like a
very very prestigious it's not like a
obscure encyclopedia it was a very
prestigious enyclopedia set and they're
becoming very rare now um but some
people still have them and if you do I
would I would recommend holding on to
that and if so in a binary star system
these Stars often like move around each
other like like they dance they they do
a dance now the great year again I
highly recommend people watch that
documentary called the great year it
shows that dance beautifully now this
dead star seemed to have a massive
elliptical orbit I mean we're talking an
elliptical orbit so big that we never
can observe it ever we can never see it
are there any big proponents of this
Theory now that like have tons of data
behind it very strange that all I've
seen is Caltech investigating this
planet but there's been from what I
gather very little on anything else um
and I uh that's why I wanted to preserve
that image on my website yeah so that
something like that couldn't die because
it looked like it was being like
completely scrubbed and telling you the
weirdest thing about it is you saw that
diagram right showed the weird the weird
thing is that di that that article even
in the encyclopedia says nothing why
would you include a diagram that has
information that would completely blow
up all of science itself and not say
anything to me the only thing that makes
sense the only one thing is that
somebody wanted to keep that in there
but they weren't allowed to say anything
well how else does that make any sense I
mean that would be an entire article
astronomers again Thomas van flandern
and Robert Harrington yeah they were the
ones who spearheaded looking into this
planet and I believe even the binary
star they both die of throat cancer and
they both died of throat cancer what
years did they die of throat cancer um I
don't remember off my head they died in
the 90s though okay right after this
discovery pretty much right basically
and then mil St is like hey by the way
everything's mathematical and
miscalculations and it's all wrong and
everyone's like okay never mind oh man
that's so crazy isn't that wild yeah and
so it's I when I in my last book the
stage of time I end up I I mentioned in
there that they're sort of like unsung
heroes that are forgotten and that I I I
think deserve to be remembered were they
trying to get this out as they're being
kind of marginalized Standish I believe
they were writing a whole series of
scientific papers in collaboration with
each other anybody in touch with their
families or something you know I'm not
sure if anyone's listening to this that
knows um I know that they had stumbled
onto something very very major and it's
just I'm not saying that necessarily I I
don't want to come across as like they
were murdered necessarily but it was
very mysterious how they both died
fascina and then and then after miles
stsh just proves the whole thing
mathematically nobody ever investigates
it it just dies out what's his
background stish he became a prominent
Aston astronomical figure within uh the
NASA Community before we go on I should
say that personally I haven't seen an
abundance of evidence for this binary
star system theory that Matt's proposing
but there are ancient civilizations that
Echo this belief and even some pretty
credible modern astronomers who believe
it's possible roughly half of the Stars
you find in the universe are alone and
the other half are in groups and often
the groups consist of two one of the
Stars might have evolved enough so that
it has died and has become a white dwarf
and then lost a lot of its heat and
became F faint as well but if it's
sufficiently far away and sufficiently
faint then it would just sit there and
maybe orbit the sun within a few
thousand years who knows I cannot have
any positive opinion about this but I
would not rule it out perhaps we've
already seen our son's binary companion
but clinging to Old theories kept us
from realizing it if theer a perfect
sphere there would be no procession
because there would be no way to apply
that torque on the Earth but since the
Earth spins it makes itself a blade by
that spinning so it has bulges on the
Equator so uh this leads to a net force
which would want to put the Earth
upright that's what the Earth doesn't
allow it to do but the Earth cannot
completely Escape uh that pull from the
Moon and instead of being positioned
upright it will uh shift the orientation
of the axis in other Ro it will cause
this procession all of that's to say I
would maybe hold this Theory as somewhat
low probability but incredibly impactful
if true and I would urge every audience
member to please research this the
possible scrub of the pioneer Mission
from NASA and the important stories of
Thomas van flandern and Robert
Harrington okay I want to get into some
of the we got off on like a crazy
tangent and I I know that's not what you
spend all your time on so you've
uncovered some amazing ancient
architecture in Eastern Turkey and this
architecture seems to comport with all
sorts of sites all over the world so it
is kind of proving out this Graham
Hancock hypothesis around this Proto
civilization that may have existed
because you say that a lot of the
techniques in terms of how they build
the structures the motifs and symbols
the motifs and symbols themselves line
up perfectly so yeah exactly what
evidence do we have of this so you have
that in front of you you want to pull
that up and you can look at it while I'm
talking to you yeah um so I I to start
with my expertise uh primarily had been
focused a lot of my life over the last
20 years with um really becoming an uh
try to be as much of an expert as I can
on ancient copor languages now Kor is
not a language it's a writing style it's
a type of wedged writing style that was
adopted or emerged out of the
Mesopotamian region so if we think of
languages like Samaran is the first
language that we know ever existed on
earth right it's a type of CA form
language and that survived because they
etched in these symbols into clay and
stone which can last enormous amounts of
time uh thousands of years in uh in
comparison to paper which only lasts 500
to 500 to a, years it's a it's a much
more efficient way to record information
now when I was studying um the ancient
Sumerian civilization who by the way
invented nearly everything they invented
astronomy um animal husbandry
agriculture uh mathematics they were the
ones who first came up with like
trigonometry and understanding the solar
system oh yeah well it came out of
Babylon but but Babylon got it from
Summer that's where if you saw that re
and what's your line between because I
know people talk about just the fertile
crest being the cradle of civilization
but what's your line between Su and
Babylon Babylon had what was called an
Old Kingdom and a new kingdom so it
looks like there was an older even an
older part of Babylon as well um I want
to point out that most ancient places in
the world if they weren't buried under
some pile of debris or something like
that they were rebuilt upon because it
seems like uh the predecessors that came
always knew there was something sacred
and special about them and that was
something we see all over the world
which is why so much confusion exists in
the archaeological world for who
originally built them and that's that
came out of that region now I was
particularly interested in the Sumerians
because the Sumerians had all these
mysterious designs which by the way
their ziggurats look exactly like that
step pyramid design M okay it's exact
it's basically the same design I thought
ziggurats had seven levels well they're
not this they're not the this the step
pyramids can have more than three levels
some of can have seven it's based on
that step step design though okay now we
see those seven levels in things like um
Medan s in Saudi Arabia which I showed
you images from that as well but the
original teaching seems to have come out
of this concept of these three levels
and I can talk about that concept of
three as we go forward however
so when I was studying uh the ancient
Sumerian
stories one of the things I focused on
is what was our ancient history like
these are the oldest writings ever
written they have these incredible
stories in these copor tablets okay
things like the aesus the enum Alish I'm
sure you've heard of the Epic of
Gilgamesh and and all these stories U
many many more right eridu Genesis myth
of adapa um Legend of atana but they all
have these like nuggets of Truth within
them now a lot of archaeologists would
tell you that those were just based on
myths and you even find out that a lot
of the Christian stories like the Deluge
and the Noah story where is nothing to
do with original Christianity it was
adopted from these ancient Sumerian
stories and you can see the comparisons
right if you read the Epic of Gilgamesh
the atrasis and then you compare the
flood story it's like literally almost
identical to Genesis it's clearly it
came from that okay now if you want to
get to the core of something you need to
go back to the earliest form of it if
you want to understand that story now I
became pretty obsessed with
understanding who the best translators
in the world what the forgeries were the
false stuff right which exists too real
quick what gives you confidence that the
epic epic of gilgames was actually the
inspiration for the story of Noah and
the Ark and the well because the Epic of
Gilgamesh contains the original flood
story but it's from Gilgamesh who is
from a later time period he's from this
second iteration that emerged out of
that region not the original Sumerians
but he's from a civilization that
emerged out of the or they they called
them like the or civilization or or II
it's a it's an area that he was
basically a king or a tyrant the king of
the city of UR okay or an urak in that
area now he writes from an earlier time
period because in the Epic of Gilgamesh
he's trying to seek the he's trying to
find the secrets of immortality by going
to find a very specific character and
this is what I traced and tracked across
all these texts but not coming from the
lens of like hear say
I found the best translators in the
world who had translated them such as
George Smith in 1875 and then Stephanie
do and others who have come along like
Samuel Kramer who are the best ass
serologists in the world a serologist is
a term that is a blanket term that
includes surian though they just call
themselves a serologist George Smith was
like the first person to transl first he
was the one who cracked the Sumerian
code now to give people some uh
understanding we had this period of um
of not knowing at all what these these
texts said okay so Samaran is what's
called it's called a land language
isolate it doesn't share an alphabet or
similarities Mo many similarities same
very very small similarities with any
language on the earth it's basically
like an alien language um and a man
named Austin Henry lard came along in 19
um in 1848 and he stumbled across um
this ancient Library called
the a um the Royal Asher bopaul Library
okay the Royal Asher bopal library is
very unusual in the case that it doesn't
get a lot of uh interest you know a lot
of people talk about the Library of
Alexandria but the really I feel like
the library of as bana Paul should get a
lot more interest along with even the
great libraries of ebla which is another
ancient city in Syria but these were
these were libraries that had massive
amount of Kor tablets that weren't just
from that Civilization but they were
from many many civilizations Asher bonap
Paul was a very very powerful King but
he was also a priest and he he was he
existed during what we think of as the
Assyrian time period okay so he was an
Assyrian King but they were there were
earlier time periods before him there
was an Acadian time period Then There
was a Sumerian time period so if we were
going to look at it in like a timeline
there was the emergence of a Sumerian
civilization then an Acadian then an
Assyrian and a Babylonian right so we
have this time period that is around 4
to 6,000 years old and in that time
period Asher bonap Paul comes into power
and he's
like these stories are incredible
they're connected to my ancestors
sonakar and my father Tigris and all
these other guys and I want to
understand like the most important
stories of mankind right he recognizes
that they are Barone the most important
stories and I agree with them and so
what he did is he amassed these armies
thousands of people and he goes out to
every part of Mesopotamia to every
ancient city gathers all the tablets all
together he brings them back creates the
greatest library ever known to man
called The Royal Asher bopal Library so
in 1848 18 49 Austin Henry lard is
Excavating the ancient city of Nineveh
and what today is mosul Iraq and they're
digging down digging down and they find
like those huge Lam masu statues and
everything and they find which by the
way are 40 tons each they find this
Royal Library with thousands and
thousands of K form tablets specifically
40,000 to be exact okay now they're not
all like uh the same level of importance
some like talking about laws and
governing and you know like shekels and
Bush how much a we a bushel of wheat
would cost and cuz they agriculture was
their basis of currency by the way
that's where currency came from the
first currency on Earth came from the
Sumerians and it was called the shekele
it was based on a Bushell of wheat
because they were an agricultural C
civilization who had actually were the
founders who created civilization itself
so Austin Henry lard finds this Library
okay finds thousands of tablets
including the Epic of gilgames and he
finds like Sumerian king list and he
finds um atra hesus all these things but
they had no idea how to read it because
the Sumerian language had died out over
a thousand years before imagine a
thousand years going by where nobody
remembers how to how to read something
okay and so they have no idea what it
says here comes George Smith George
Smith gets a hold of these he brings it
back to the British museum he spends the
next 10 years 10 years studying them
trying to understand what how how to
read this language George Smith is a
hero he's one of the greatest unsung
heroes of of history that the world does
not know George Smith ends up doing
something brilliant he realizes that
he's never going to crack the Samaran
cone on its own so what he does is he
backtracks he goes to the only known
language that has even somewhat
similarities in in its way and that's
ayrian in a Cadian C form so he goes
back to those stories and he basically
takes and understands some of the
similarities with things like the occur
which means mountainous and other things
and he backtracks and he figures out how
to he cracks the Sumerian code
essentially he and it's described that
when he CRA the first tablet he ever the
first set of tablets he ever cracked was
actually the Epic of gilgames which is
brings this full circle back to where we
started anyway he figures that out and
he starts reading and you get these
fantastic stories right of massive
floods and ancient Kings who ruled for
enormous amounts of time and um
disasters that wiped out a previous age
and then there's another emergence of
civilization that comes after all these
stories now when archaeologist and that
by the way was like
1875 when archaeologist get a hold of
this they are like there's no way that
these things were real not only did they
believe that the stories were just
allegories CU there's allegorical nature
of them right Gilgamesh is talking about
fighting the bull of right the Bull of
the of of Taurus and everything those
are metaphysical Journeys that have
astrological connections okay agreed of
course but then it mentions that
Gilgamesh is a king of the city of iro
you're like wait a minute irck was found
it's a real City and other things and
you the the the part that I come in is
in studying these and finding the best
versions possible and then saying well
what aspects of Truth and and uh aspects
of literalism are in here and can they
help us piece together our ancient past
and that's where this whole story of
connecting to Eastern Turkey came from
because as I'm studying all the tablets
and then cross referencing saying like
look atana the legend of atana he's it
describes that he emerges after the
great deluge and and builds the first
city called Kish that's after this great
time period of when the original five
cities were built when's the legend of
atana the legend of atana is like say
4,000 years ago 3500 years ago right and
then what what specifically but why are
you high conviction that the Noah thing
is connected okay so let me get to that
yeah so in that there's these moments
where they have distinctions of events
occurring and things happening okay
Gilgamesh was not part of the Samaran
time per perod again he's from this the
uro Ura time period but he knew about
his ancestors and he knew about that to
such a degree that the entire premise of
the Epic of Gilgamesh is him going to
seek immortality because his friend
enkidu dies and he ends up being worried
about his own mortality okay so what he
does is he specifically goes to find a
man a man named utanapishtim
okay now that that character it was also
called Zas sudra an ancient Sumer you
find out that he's the original hero
what called the atesus he's where the
whole Noah story came from you can
Lacross reference those stories they're
nearly identical and it's not just one
it's you have the legend of ubar you
have uh the the um the myth of adapa you
have eridu Genesis you have Sumerian
king list you have atrasis in Epic of
Gil mesh that all mention the same flood
the same characters in the same cities
okay now that's amazing oh and that's
where that's where I funneled into this
and I became the Epic of Gilgamesh is
the first that the first one was
translated not the oldest TBL not the
oldest T yeah it was the first
translated but the reason why it's so
important is that for a great deal of
time for the last 120 130 years
archaeologists have been under this
impression that the cities mentioned in
the very early cities mentioned were a
myth okay weren't real some something
like Troy right Troy was considered a
myth that the Greeks never fought Troy
and that it was just an allegorical
story kind of like the whole ploh thing
and and yet in the
1871 schiman yeah I love these stories
because it's like yeah it's we just we
take everything as allegory and myth and
you know whatever but it's just painting
over our modern kind of ideas with you
know the past with that sort of you know
myopic brush exactly and you don't need
to be an expert sort of defends that and
then like the kind of amateur can
stumble into the actual truth actually
which is a beautiful thing and that's I
became a obsessed with these tablets
every single one I could read every
version because it was different
versions of them for instance the
Babylonians wrote a version of the Anum
Alish that the original Sumerians and
acadians had written and there was
slight deviations in the story based on
the greatness of Marduk who's the patron
God of Babylon versus eni who's the
patron God of eridu it's but you you can
weave those out by saying oh I know this
is the earlier version so I can
understand how this got a little bit
altered right so that's what I do I've
been doing that for 20 years so in my
investigations I found that that the
original city of eridu subscribed as the
first city ever created on Earth
literally the first city created well
late 1800s they find arido okay very
mysteriously there's a zigurat that's an
entire mountain of arido that has this
city below it right they usually had a
temple with a city below it what modern
day country is a do in it's in Iraq okay
so it's it's in the whole War torn
region that I can't get to and I have a
whole campaign on my website part Iraq
it's it's near um the the Confluence of
the Euphrates and tigis rivers in
southern Iraq um West of you know west
of Baghdad so in the 1800s they find
aido and they only excavate the main
part of the city they find tablets and
everything they bring them to the
British museum they never excavate the
arido zigon and then and I ended up just
to give a little sidebar I ended up
going on this campaign that's on my
website called The Campaign to say it
aido because I end up finding all these
photographs over the last 10 years of
locals going in and just pillaging
pillaging the site and literally there's
tablets sticking out of the ground
and they're just like selling on the
black market the whole site has no
fences nothing protecting it and it's
like it was abandoned um is that still
the case now yeah it is just completely
oh God it's very very sad and they end
up going in during World War II um in 19
your belie the first city on recorded
history ever which was considered a myth
well not ever cuz you think there was
maybe a civilization prior well no this
is the thing is that I'm believing that
Sumer was not when we were told okay is
that what we think of as the time period
of Sumer is actually a far later time
period of the Assyrians and acadians
okay not the same time period at all so
how old do you think Sumerian I I think
the ancient Sumerians are well over
12,000 years ago which is why they
essentially invented everything so when
when do you think or or is it just
impossible to say b i based on geodesy
and aligning temples of in ancient Sumer
like uh in Iraq and different and erid
doing different things I've had people
email me and there's been studies done
online during with using geodesi
alignments with cardal points and
different things where it no longer has
any connection to like the the like True
North at all and that where it's aligned
True North was like I said in Greenland
which was you know well over 12,000
years ago which then gives its potential
age as being you know maybe 20,000 years
old or more whoa yes that and that's why
I do we have anything beyond because I
know the the critics are going to say
you need more than astronomical
alignment oh of course and have Bey
beyond that yeah well we have these sets
of teachings and motifs that seem to
emerge and then spread around the world
like core knowledge it's very important
about us and our the solar system and
different things and that's one of the
things we can use but again there's more
evidence we we'll get into in in a
minute let's just we'll put a pause on
that for a second okay now
they find arido and it's like all of a
sudden it's not a myth anymore and
that's pretty mysterious and not t super
cool in the whole uh understanding of
ancient history and it was a very very
sad story with arido and it's how it was
abandoned and the ziggurat was like very
like literally never excavated
now um and I got a chance to go to The
Pen Museum this past year and see a lot
of those artifacts from eridu uh in
their original form and I'm writing a
book right now on this whole whole
turkey connection with Sumer and in the
middle of it called the missing key of
History the Lost era at civilization I
have the whole connection back between
that so they ended up not Excavating the
zigurat at all and it's it was a very
sad story as I had mentioned um where
they sort of move forward and they they
come back previously um during World War
II and they're shown like walking around
arido and we have if you just go on uh
Wikipedia and you look up aido you can
see excuse
me hold on a second yeah no
worries if if you go on Wikipedia and
you just look up aido you can see
basically um the photographs of it and
how they're walking around there's
bricks sticking up out of the ground and
everything um but the reason I mentioned
that is that previously that City had
been considered a myth okay it was like
oh that that's not real and then they
find it well how do we know that that's
air do oh they established they found
tablets that actually said the name
arido on it in many many places so
that's not disputed they that's they
know they found arido now now this is
where the new the next part of this
comes from I had been studying this
particular aspect of the tablets that is
one of the core values of all of them
which is this original Noah flood story
right Gilgamesh going to seek the flood
hero as he calls it in there okay and
his name in epical Gilgamesh is UN
pisham but his original Sumerian name is
Zas sudra now they had different names
and different erors but it's the same
person now you you learn that Zas sudra
was and there's surian King list that
has the whole breakdown and you can go
through all this like it's it's that's
established if if you want to look you
can find it is that turns out he was a
son of the last king that ruled these
these first five cities existed IDU is
the first shupac was the last City okay
okay and you find out in the Sumerian
king list that it was ruled by a man
named ubara Tutu now ubara tutu's son
was the Noah figure it was his name was
Zas sudra orup pisham now for ease of
all this let's just call him Noah okay
because that way people can understand
what I'm saying easier from from now on
those are his original names now you
learn that in those stories that ubar
tutu had stepped down at the end of his
Reign and this figure had come in and
ruled over shupac very briefly uh he was
both a king and a priest okay not like
the the Russell Crow version where they
show where he's like some primitive
Stone Age man or something he was
actually a very high priest uh in a in a
sage and very very wise and
knowledgeable which which is why the
actual tablet that he supposively wrote
called the atrasis literally means very
wise okay he was a great Sage very very
knowledgeable now it's described in this
that in the stories again like the
allegorical Stories the myths that they
that they say that number one shupac
wasn't real and number two that this
figure was never real both were not
supposed to be real at all okay except
that in 1931 shupac was found now before
I go into that story I will start by
saying that this figure this in in the
stories in all the tablets it discusses
how this Noah figure this Sage Zas
sudra he ends up learning that there's
this great Deluge coming that's going to
wipe everything out he was warned hit
through this various means that uh and
you can get into the tablets how they
were supposedly there was a packed where
they weren't they weren't they weren't
supposed to warn Humanity they um where
Z was warned and in the story he is told
to build this massive Cedar Craft boat
it's very very explicit details on how
long the plank should be and how it
should be sealed what's called bitumin
now bitumin is something we use in
construction even today it's a type of
epoxy like type of adhesive that's very
very very um strong and they he was told
to build something and seal it off they
say like the abzu the abzu is like the
underworld so completely seal it off
bring just your animals and your family
okay so and then the course Christianity
turns it into like two animals of every
kind and all this stuff and it
completely derails from what the
original story that's echoed throughout
Mesopotamia is the core of this is that
he was told to basically your family and
you are going to help be part of the
seeds of humanity in the future because
there's going to be an event that comes
through that's going to basically wipe
everybody out okay so that story story
is that he builds it he doesn't tell
anybody everybody knows dies his family
gets on they just have like their goats
and their whatever and they survive a
certain amount of time and they end up
Landing in the Mount Ararat region okay
of uh Armenia turkey area that is where
the tablets sort of end because a lot of
them were broken and damaged and when
George Smith translated the Epic of Gil
others there was areas where they have
like Lion is missing Lon is missing Lon
is missing that's what it literally says
where they had no idea what it says the
only thing we know is that there were
these they describe them as an Nuna Gods
the ancient gods of that time that
descended down to the Mount Arad or
wherever he is and basically get into
this argument over how Humanity was
supposed to be destroyed and how enky
had warned the Noah figure and that um
eventually they come to an agreement
that be this is what it says is that
because this figure had survived and his
sons had survived and that they would
repopulate a lot of the world that that
he would be given immortality that's
essentially what the story is end with
is that the Noah figure gets immortality
now let's go forward thousands of years
now you have the eoba Gilgamesh which
has the flood story Rewritten in it but
in that you learn that Gilgamesh is very
interested in understanding how to
obtain immortality the reason is is that
there's an obscure tablet called the
death of billig games and it is a tablet
and bames is another name for Gilgamesh
and you find out in that that these
anuna Gods had given the Noah figure Zas
sudra the he was the last man ever to
get immortality they said that no no
human will ever get immortality again
and we essentially will have to die like
mortal beings okay that's how you know
that that's how you know that that's the
last figure in history that gets
immortality
okay so again going forward there are
these elements of Truth in there it's
like it's like wild to try to be like
wait a minute so did these things
actually happen is that an allegory
allegory well there's a clue that's in
the epical gilgames that's on like
tablet 10 that almost nobody gets to
because they have to Wade through all
the astronomical things and him fighting
the the monster and like his journey
with enidu and they're like oh that's
none of that makes sense of her is real
and you're like well no it's it's
probably not it's an allegory except
until you get to a certain part in that
buried in that tablet is a moment
where you get to uh Gilgamesh going to
he says he wants to seek out the flood
hero unap pisham to learn the secrets of
immortality then you start being like
wait a minute so there's some real
aspects to to this right and so what
happens is do you you know the Greek uh
fairy fairy Boatman fairy man of the
underworld right Sharon have you seen
that where he's got the staff and he's
got the hood and he's like you got to
put two gold coins on to FY in the
Underworld the river sticks that came
from the Epic of gilgames that was the
oldest recorded record of that I think
the Greeks came later this was that this
was an earlier time period where that
first iteration of that that concept
came from
and in that Gilgamesh seeks out and
finds the fairy man again again this is
a weird concept to think like is this a
metaphysical Journey how is this even
possible like to be in the Underworld
and do this that part is mysterious of
course and I think we still don't
understand certain aspects of reality
well yeah I mean that would be like the
pran's quest you know kind of proverbial
mystery ritual or something well and and
then there there's this part though that
comes up that's key to this whole thing
it's key and in that Gilgamesh gets goes
to Sharon and gets on the boat and he
pays him and he fies him into the
underworld because it turns out no being
can be immortal and live in a Mater in a
in a mortal world in material world all
organic matter breaks down and so the
only way that unap pisham the the Noah
figure the only way he could ever be
immortal is to live in the Underworld
okay so that's essentially where that
comes from and the idea of ishar to send
the underworld and all those ancient
Sumerian stories now so gilgames travels
in the Underworld to go and find um Zas
sudra he finds him on this like Island
it describes okay he goes there and he
seeks him out and there he is and he has
anybody can go and read this U
especially in the latest book I just
published called The Epic of humanity I
have the whole translation of this in
there want to because sometimes these
tablets can be F hard to find the right
versions so one of the things we did
with the ethic of humanity is we
included all the most important passages
from the best translators in there you
can read um and you can find that on
Amazon on the stage of time.com
anyway he finds the Noah figure and he
asks him how did you obtain immortality
I I wish to know and then I'm
paraphrasing here and the Noah figure
says oh Gilgamesh
uh I will tell you an ancient story he
says there was once a city called
shupac far older than your time so old
that when Gilgamesh is alive which I do
believe is the time period that we're
told he's alive right 3,500 years ago
whatever it is 4,000 years ago somewhere
in that region that he he knew about
something extremely ancient and that
that's what he was going there for so he
says oh Gilgamesh let me tell you about
a city an ancient city of shupac that
remember that's supposed to be the last
City created when with the first five
that was destroyed where the Noah figure
came from so it makes complete sense
that he would have all the knowledge of
shupac because he was the last king and
Sage of that City before it was all
destroyed make sense mhm so he says let
me tell you a story of this ancient city
of shupac long before you uh it's so old
that the gods were once in it that's
those are quotes that he says were once
in it you're like that's weird right
so go forward he by the way he doesn't
seek
immortality unap pisham tells him if you
can dive down and get this rare plant um
or if you can try to stay awake for
seven days he gives them these tasks to
try to do and Gilgamesh fails all of
them and then ends up going back
empty-handed to a rock so it ends up
kind of sad right um but that doesn't
really matter because you find out
something really strange like so shupac
was a real place and uh this figure was
a real person that was there and these
events some of them were real that's
where I started getting more interested
and I started studying it it turns out
they found the city of shupac in
1931 in that area of Iraq just they they
they had this hunch they believe Based
on data and information where they
thought it was it was below this this
modern well modern day uh Village called
Tel far okay Tel far and so they dig
down below telara and they end up
hitting these different layers of
civilization not just one but three and
they called them strata 1 2 and three
now strata one was the deepest two being
the middle and then three being the more
recent okay so they start down they
first hit strata 3 they call it strata
because it's different layers strata 3
was the the much more recent time period
of that region where they had Tablets
still but the pottery was actually kind
of primitive it was an interesting
culture that had come after Gilgamesh
right so there's like another culture
after Gilgamesh that ends up living in
that region as they get down further and
they dig down to like 6 to 8 feet right
they hit with they call the uro or Ur
civilization and they find tablets
related to Gilgamesh and they find well
this is when Gilgamesh lived and they
and they acknowledge that they call it
strata 2 so here's gilgamesh's time
right they're writing all the tablets
they're writing about the floods and all
these different events so that's 3,500
to 4,000 exactly now if you were a
civilization writing about a previous
event it would make sense that the
people that had the event occur to them
would not be the ones writing about it
right because they'd be gone yeah of
course so it would be like stories and
things that would be woven down and then
you would write their stories right how
old is tier three well so they this is
what's Wild after they hit Strat of
three because archaeology isn't supposed
to exist before that uhhuh 80% of the
entire team
left they all left they're like you guys
are wasting your time basically I'm
paraphrasing and you can go on uh and
this is a big part of the new book I'm
writing uh the new book is going to be
called The Missing key of History it's
it details all this but this and so if
you go on Pen Museum archive you just
look up the city of shupac you can read
this whole thing I'm telling you right
now okay it's very beautiful beautifully
laid out very great a great document
that has all the information and
diagrams of stuff okay so in that um
they hit this strata 2 civilization
which is when the known acadians and
Assyrians and all these guys are
supposed to live um and they start
digging down further and they find no
more human remains no human activity at
all for 3 feet 4 feet which is a long
way to go and everyone's like you know
what this is a waste of time and like
70% of them or so something like all
leave except some of the archaeologists
in some of the better workmen stayed
they're like why do you think they
stayed they're like we haven't found
shupac yet okay we haven't found shup
pek yet so they continue digging and
they find this layer underneath strata 2
as I said that is 3 to 4 feet thick okay
like pretty sizable layer no signs of
human activity no fragments of any kind
other than just aluvial material uial
means River like or flood flood
deposited right just like the stories of
the great flood okay like atrasis and
the stories of shrew pack being wiped
out by a great flood and being buried
and sealed okay well they stick around
it's the British and the Germans digging
okay and they they dig further and
further because they just had a hunch
and at 16 feet
down 16 feet from the top now two
civilizations above them they all of a
sudden hit something they hit areas of
scattered tablets and Scattered
fragments of stuff and they find they
find tablets right above it and below
that show because they actually found a
tablet above in strata 2 that said
shupac was here but they didn't find
shupac so they're like it's got to be
down there somewhere so they end up
finding this base layer and it's total
Anarchy from what they can see most of
the belongings have been removed have
been like taken something it looked like
they had the people had like left is
what they came to the conclusion of and
they find some beautiful beautiful
Pottery they actually found this really
weird diorite hand diorite is one of the
hardest stones on Earth that has six
fingers and as there's an image of that
I'm including the book and it's in on
the pen excavation report so weird it's
a hand but with six fingers very bizarre
whatever that means but anyway diorite
is an extremely hard Stone so no
primitive civilization can carve things
like that very well carv di right hand
and they find all this beautiful
beautiful potery and they find these
tablets and different things and they're
like oh my God we found shupac okay 16
feet to 22 feet down massive amount of
area and they have of course right on
top of it is this 4 foot aluvial flood
layer sitting on top of it now in that
article I highly recommend people read
it there's this whole conclusions part
at the bottom where they end up
discussing how there are very very
interesting similarities from the
ancient unap pisham Zas sudra story that
match what they found wow however at the
very end they say this is simp I'm
paraphrasing this is simply a playoff of
thoughts and off of words we don't
really think that this could actually
have existed like they said but it is
interesting nonetheless they do any sort
of dating well you the dating is very
yeah it's very difficult to date things
like that okay but you have this flood
layer above right so they see the
similarities and this is where I get on
board uh I find that article study the
hell out of it realized okay this might
be like real evidence to prove that
these things really happened and that
this is actual archaeologists saying and
and pointing towards something
mysterious and that's where it led to
all of this okay because now I'm like
okay so shupac was real arida was real
Zer was real oh my god did they really
land in the a at mountains okay right
right so it all starts unfold so I start
studying that region it's Eastern Turkey
today it's Eastern Turkey it used to be
Armenia so I'm looking around looking
around and I stumble across why why do
those civilizations so cherup pac's real
a Israel all that stuff's in Iraq in the
fer Crescent what what does that have to
do with you know anything because the
stories state that they landed in the
aat mountains so you're saying let's try
to figure out whether that's true too
exactly yeah now I initially wasn't
necessarily being like okay I'm going to
find evidence of that in fact it sort of
fell in my lap I was just looking around
that area and I stumbled ac across these
very mysterious sites that were brand
new the world has like very really never
even heard of some of these sites are
found in
2001 we're talking about you think we
think go Beckley Tey knew that was found
in the 1800s and then fully excavated
1940s we're talking about something way
newer than that stuff and when we're
saying so Gilgamesh is the king of eru
when we say OK in aa oh there so IDU is
related to a previous King not related
to to to gilgames she was a totally
different time yeah yeah okay so G
Gilgamesh is the king of iro and the
Epic of Gilgamesh says that he is
landing in modern day turkey or who he
seeks out the flood hero to learn about
the secrets of immortality from that
figure yes from the ancient Sumerian
figure of Zas sudra unap pisham who
became the Noah figure in Christianity
but then what is that what's the
connection then between that and turkey
in modern day because in the stories
that um Zas sudra and his family they
land in the aat mountains after the
flood After the flood they land there
yes got it and I believe that flood was
not younger dasas but actually a
completely different event way before it
because we had this whole time period of
an emergence of something that happened
now Christianity early Christianity and
Hebrew Traditions already State this it
already state that the sons of Noah
repopulated and traveled around the
world there that's japeth Shem and ham
they already state that there's like
biblical all kinds of ancient knowledge
around this except they don't believe
that it was before 6,000 years ago
what's your best guess as to the date
could be up to 40,000 years ago based on
looking at ice course sampling and
previous climatic events of when floods
could have occurred in these these
things on the Earth again studying
Greenland and Antarctic Ice cores and
then studying alignments with Greenland
when North was in that position and
different things like that wow so would
the implication then be that chup Pac is
yes the old like the oldest cities on
Earth wow and it was sealed and buried
and concealed by the flood and then
other civilizations ended up building
right on top of it but there was so much
flood debris and material that they
never even reached
it it was like sealed off we've got to
get these dating techniques better it's
so frustrating when you find all this
stuff and then it is above a flood it's
below a flood layer so like that should
be you know some decent evidence that
you know this stuff is older than well
archeologists say that it was a local
River Event of flooding because the
Euphrates is prone to some flooding
events however in in pictures of sh
eridu I was able to identify uh ocean
shells that are still on the zigurat
summit that would have been more
inclined to have like a Persian Gulf
flood from the ocean and maybe even the
Black Sea that engulf that entire region
that's wild well yeah I mean they're not
river shells they're ocean shells uhhuh
and what's the I mean that's that's well
there's freshwater snails there there's
freshwater things like that but these
are ocean shells that are sticking out
of the ground that that would be some
evidence to potentially prove that or at
least suggest or Point towards that that
this was a flood that it was that was
related to the Persian Gulf and not just
like the Euphrates River flooding during
seasonal uh Rises but do you really
believe that at that
time technology could have even possibly
existed to get into a boat and then land
you know pretty far away well it's
described that very very extensively
that the details of how to build it and
how to survive were were were told uhhuh
like so that Humanity could survive it's
it's again if you want to read the
tablets uh you read the ethic of
humanity they're all in there and it's
very detailed with like the amount of
bitchin and the type of wood because
Cedar is the toughest wood on earth it's
a very specific type of wood um and how
to build it and how to seal it off and
that they they did survive this event
and that they landed up there and that's
why there's so many ancient Traditions
that say that that
happened now this leads to everything
else that is right at the core of all
this that you have in front of you and
that we were talking about before when I
was studying these brand new sites
around Lake vaugh now lake vaugh is is
not that far from the arat mountains
It's relatively in the same area except
that I the reason I think they picked
lake vaugh is that it is um for instance
by the way it's the fourth deepest lake
on Earth it's 1500 ft deep and it has
volcanoes all around it when you have
that you create a very very fertile soil
for growing and creating agriculture the
perfect place to create a new
civilization new civilization and that
is what I believe potentially happened
in that region was that those that group
who were very very wise sages who were
literally being helped by the gods as
they describe it created something there
that potentially has traveled and became
Maritime and maybe answer to Peru and
Bolivia and even like Egypt and
basically this lost key to the Lost
civilizations of Earth and I can go all
into the details of why I would make
that very very bold statement okay go
for it so when I was studying these
sites again very new uh like ianis um
and KF kesi and shavu Tepe and coru and
asver ate all these different sites you
find all these similarities between them
the first thing that's very strange is
they have extremely Sophisticated Stone
work like I mean megaliths multi-ton
blocks that are carved out of very very
hard Stone and they only used three
types of stone they never used anything
even local for instance a lot of that
region is actually Limestone that has
volcanics around it but the areas they
built these temples on was usually
Limestone but they didn't use the
limeston block at all in fact some of
the balt that they used in this this
construction is considered to possibly
come from 350 miles away because of the
the quality of it there's nothing in the
region that has quaries that supports
that and some of it even came from
volcanoes like Mount sufan like at K but
again we're talking about a civilization
that mimics like what we're seeing in
Egypt with this idea of A Lost
Civilization before the dynastic
Egyptians that had gone to Great Lengths
to create massive things with stones
that they didn't care where they came
from but there was energetic reasons
that they were very important to them
where they would go and obtain them to
build these things and then they
seemingly were wiped out and then
another culture came later now that
dynastic equivalent of Egyptians would
be what I believe are called the
urans the urans in this region 2000 BC
right about 3,000 years ago they share a
lot of similarities with the Assyrian
civilization of the north remember I
said there was a reemergence of
civilization in Mesopotamia during the
time of Gilgamesh right you had the
acadians and Assyrians that reemerged
out of the ashes of the Sumerians they
then know about the stories and things
but they're like a kind of a warlike
culture a bit ashron Paul is collecting
all these tablets and creating these
libraries but what you have is I believe
a branch of the Assyrians that moved
into what I'm calling this old Holy Land
right that went up in that region and
created a completely separate
civilization right hundreds of years go
by they build this civilization and then
the Assyrians and the Babylonians invade
and Destroy them and wipe them out right
poof they disappear from history but
they leave behind all of these mud brick
castles and all of these crude stones
and all of the stuff that's built almost
entirely on or in many cases on these
older foundations just like in Egypt
make sense mhm so when I stumble across
this and I see sites like aanas and K
kesi with these machine likee cut stones
but not just the Precision of their work
the fact that they were Sun temples
aligning to the the either the rising of
the Setting Sun but also having motifs
and specific symbols that then we find
all around the world and what those
motifs represent and those symbols I
believe became the core of ancient
secret societies and things like the
Knights Templar and things like uh the
tryptic doorway knowledge we see all
around the world this idea that they're
like the Trinity right the Holy Trinity
in Christianity this the father son the
Holy Ghost but what does it really mean
I think it represents the three sides of
us right we have the mind the body and
then the spirit and if those three
things are balanced we essentially
Ascend into this high form right I Think
Jesus and Buddha and all these
individuals in history have just
basically been sages trying to teach us
that very same thing and where did that
knowledge come from I believe it was
lowered at these sites because all the
symbols all come back to here all the
building styles seem to be traced back
to here all the ancient Traditions say
that these three sons tra traveled
around the world and then provided the
knowledge it all seems to come back to
one place and what you have in front of
you is a giant Basalt what's called a b
relief and it is this massive 3ot by 3ot
by 4ot stone column uh block that has
all these sacred teachings that
literally became what I think is the
basis of hermeticism itself you have the
concepts of the law of Correspondence
you have uh the concepts of of feminine
feminine and masculine you have the tree
of life that we find throughout Assyrian
civilizations and others you have even
the passing of the pine cone which we
see all around the world in
civilizations and remember the with the
handbag and the pine cone you see the
the first what I believe is the first
iteration on that anywhere in the world
wow and not only that but the original
Sun Cross that became the Knights
Templar cross all from the same
locations in this part of turkey that
just happened to co correspond to where
these Divine sages were supposed to have
landed so you think they had sort of
ancient hermetic wisdom that then has
only been conserved via secret societies
since yeah and so what do you think
these symbols mean so like uh you know
we talked about the the the you know
Trinity what about the cross well the
Sun Cross represents what I believe is
this balance of all harmonic things
everything and I think it goes back to
this IDE of source or God the balance of
all things right and that's why the
cross became such an integral part of
Christianity but not that cross what's
interesting is that Christianity's cross
is not shared by that cross except for
the Vatican um and uh like the pope and
the Vatican have that very same cross
not only that the pope has it on its his
um on its cloak and in front of the
Vatican is a giant pine cone yeah I've
seen it very same symbols that come from
this region Y and that's why I believe
for instance these sites were visited by
Xerxes Alexander the Great and many many
other great people throughout history
Xerxes is Persian Alexander the Great's
Roman it's like they're all going back
to somewhere you think they're trying to
find something special at the site
exactly what do you think they're
looking for I think they're looking for
the holy knowledge of you want you ready
for this take that other one out the big
one underneath there yeah look at what
he's holding in his
hand looks like a maybe an AAA leaf or
no not not that the other thing
oh uh like a little a cup or CH yeah
like maybe a Holy Grail or something
exactly really exactly interesting and
if you look up what that means it means
we know what some of these things mean
right if you look up what a cup means in
religion it means the passing of a
spiritual or religious Doctrine okay
he's now holding pine cones a pine cone
for knowledge that is coming off of the
central Tree of Life in the center that
has three different ones with balancing
of the center now if you look at the top
do you see you see the three um Step
pyramids with the two Eagles on either
end yes now look at what the flowering
of the center that comes right off of
his of the where he's uh his his
basically his head is pointing towards
you see that mhm now that cons that that
consists of seven rays which I believe
correspond to the seven colors of the
visible light spectrum interesting and
this we also have seven chakras inside
us that has talked about during
Kundalini in ancient uh well seven comes
up a lot you have the seven healo seven
sages seven arit and the Egyptian you
know these are palaces that you go
through sort of calistic protocols where
yeah okay so I think what we're what
we're talking about right now are
literally some of the most holy sites on
Earth with knowledge that's then passed
around the world and archaeologists have
severely gotten this wrong it's
fascinating I mean when you talk to like
Brian mirescu who wrote you know the
immortality key he talks about the
linian mystery rituals much later
obviously in Greece but when you go
deeper with him he'll say no this this
stuff is actually been going on well
before the mystery rituals you had
minoan and Myan yes Proto examples of
these sort of mystery rituals and so
conserved knowledge via you know
specific rituals and symbology you know
kind of makes sense that it would go
back you know well before and maybe
these things are that you know can't be
taught via transferring of documents and
you know just you know pure you know
just teaching semantic knowledge maybe
it's something that needs to be
activated within a given individual
right and now if you look at the other
image to your right there you can see
the Griffin that became one of the core
symbols of Greece of ancient Greece and
I think I believe based on the
trajectory of where these different
groups went that were part of the same
area the Suns is that even Ancient
Ancient Greece just like Plato and
plutar discuss has an earlier history
than just the they're called the ancient
Athenians or Proto Athenians in those
they describes it actually fighting
against Atlantis yeah and so what we
could be looking at
is the implications of the emergence of
a global golden age that may even
connect to the ancient Athenians in
Atlantis it's really it's fascinating so
what would the Griffin why would the
Griffin point it's a guardian it's an
ancient Guardian in Greece and it is
guarding what I believe is the symbol of
time oh yeah The Hourglass yeah and I
believe that they're talking about
guarding time for eternity basically
what they're guarding is I believe is
this concept of balance and Harmony in
all things that's so interesting well
you know the
Templars supposedly had the secrets of
time travel you know if you read the
Umberto eeko Fuko pendulum you know
there's a part where they had these sort
of rituals that they would do and sort
of related to Kundalini and and then you
know at the very end of this crazy long
description of the history of the
Templar as am Berto Eko says you know
and maybe they even had the secrets of
time travel well it's it's mind-boggling
to consider like the connections because
let me an example in South America in
Bolivia we have vosha holding the two
Condors on either side which I think is
the same concept you see in front of you
of the pillars of holding balance and
that that God haly you see in front of
you is very is the is the same thing as
vosha and that the that the what we're
seeing in around Lake tiaka with the
emergence of the pre tiwanaku
civilizations in Pumapunku and around
Peru is like a mirror a mirror
civilization that was created with the
very much the same Lake titty Kaka has
one of the deepest lakes just like Lake
vau surrounded by volcanoes and they
both built out of the same andesite
Basalt work that we see mimicking each
other the same symbols so you have the
same materials same symbols the Chana
symbol the cross um the vosha we see the
same type of building style um I show
pictures from ke that's in Peru yeah
where how many sites do we have like
this that we can correspond as far as
symbology uh materials structures I'm
tracing them all around the world
potentially even to Egypt how many uh at
least half a dozen i' for instance that
step pyramid design I've also seen an
angor Tom in Cambodia uhuh and in other
places do we have any sense of how old
angor Tom is that's another thing it's
another mysterious site where we had
other cultures that adopted it later on
and then it kind of just disappeared
into history but the point is that we
may look older than ankor watt though
like they're part of the same complex I
was just looking it up and it was like
it was like you know past a th000 ad and
I was like that doesn't make sense to me
it's got to be older than they don't
they have no way to date things like
that just because someone comes along
and writes something into something else
it it doesn't date it now give you an
example now archaeologists believe that
the that all of these ruins all these
artifacts all these symbols came from
the urans because the urans wrote k form
into some of the temples just little
spots here and there like I King Manoa
or rusa II built this and that's what
their basis for it being the Arians
except the Arians had none of the same
incorporation of these uh these motifs
into their their artwork was quite
primitive um they built on top of all
the St the base stonework with mud brick
uhhuh and then they crewed stonor none
of the teachings were part of any of
their culture at all and more
furthermore um they didn't seem to have
any kind of respect for any of these
ancient teachings they actually turned
some of these Gods into War gods and it
makes sense if you're during a time of
war that you're going to use them in
very different ways than they were
before now my theory behind that is that
this civilization left no writings like
for instance in the Great Pyramid of
Giza there are no writings anywhere okay
a lot of these ancient sites like give
you an example two like if you go to
pumu there's no writings anywhere that's
interesting because you would if it were
really from you know what we consider
one of the ancient Egyptian kingdoms you
would expect more hieroglyphics except
that the hieroglyphics were maybe all
come from the dynastic Egyptians that's
what I'm saying yeah so maybe this
civilization yeah that's just another
point you know what their language was
what was their language symbolism that
yeah wow and that their literal way of
passing knowledge why would you do that
let me tell you why you would do that
manly behall discusses in his um amazing
work that the Ancients language was
symbolism because that way it couldn't
be interpreted misinterpreted by those
who were not adepts and sages you need
the ears to hear or the eyes to see well
you're just not going to understand what
you're looking at if you're not a sage
that has any kind of knowledge of it it
literally won't make any sense to you
this is true of all secret Society you
know or you know anything and so I
believe that their language may have
been symbolism and these motifs
represent Divine knowledge that is at
the very heart of two things one an
understanding that we're part of this
balance and Harmony of the earth and
that everything is connected okay that's
one and that those things are actually
maintained and then the two is the
knowledge of the Divine side of
ourselves and how to reach these higher
States Of Consciousness like all the
great sages have always been trying to
tell us all along and that those two are
the Core Concepts of teaching some of
these are even like universal laws in in
in with woven into these and I believe
that's why so many of these
civilizations built out of the same
Stone had the same symbols all over the
Earth um and just mysteriously
disappeared because I believe that that
Civilization then traveled around the
world and I have evidence for that well
I found sites one there's a site called
Alton Tepe mhm you ready for this 425
miles away from the other sites enormous
distance that was has the same symbols
same Temple design all of it's the same
and it shows this migratory route that
they were they were making and it it
heads right towards the Mediterranean in
the Black Sea I believe that that
Civilization be between became Maritime
and then influenced the preg Greeks
influen the Egyptians influenc the
Ancient Ancient Peru and Bolivia and
maybe even other places like Cambodia
and India do you think this is what we
call Atlantis I I would I would say that
it's what we're looking for for the Lost
civilizations why can't you you know the
more conservative thing would be to say
this is just one of these like Proto
examples of the mystery rituals and we
don't know you know and they were the
mystery rituals themselves are conserved
all over the world and that's pretty
fascinating but we don't know exactly
what civilization it came from the
problem is though that any civilizations
that are credited with this time period
are considered iron or Bronze Age okay
okay iron or Bronze Age means that you
only have tools made out of iron and
bronze and your capabilities right iron
agent is is the one that they created
the your Arians now Iron Age tools
bronze AG is like 1,000 BC is that came
after Iron Age now if you have Iron Age
tools how can you ever manipulate first
of all move Stones hundreds of miles
okay let's just start there if you were
an iron AG civilization first of all how
could you move gigantic blocks why would
you even do that when you have local
Stone right in front of you that's like
Limestone or something softer why on
Earth would you ever go to those lengths
to go and get those stones first if
you're a primitive culture how would you
even do it so I I so I agree with you
that the conventional narrative is it
has to be makes no sense makes no sense
and then drawing conclusions from this
so it's like okay so we have like six or
so turn that over for a minute turn that
flip it around now no flip the other way
around now you see the base Stone that's
the that's the like the the the darker
like the stone you can see in the bottom
I do that's the foundation of ionas okay
you're looking at now that is built out
of an aite one of the hardest stones on
Earth same type of stone we see all the
way across the world in tiwanaku pumu
okay
wow now look on top that entire Mass you
see on top is not dirt it's mud brick
you can actually see the brick sticking
out some now if the Arians were able to
build out of stone then why would they
all of a sudden only use mud brick on
top of it no it's almost like you see
this regression of humanity like
embodied in this sediment layer of like
actually really advanced stuff going on
at the lowest levels of the sediment
layer and then stuff above it now that's
the first thing now now why first of all
how would they able to move these
multi-ton stones from enormous distances
one two how could they cut them anywhere
near what are like laser cut Cuts right
they look machine cut I have
examples from ke excuse me from KF kesi
that have um cuts that are so sharp you
can still cut your finger on them
they're and you see the same thing in
Puma punu that are so unbelievably uh
perfect that today we wouldn't be able
to do it by hand we would use a machine
to cut those right we have no idea how
they cut them secondly some of these
symbols turn that around for a second
and flip it around some of the symbols
that the crosses actually go between
blocks seamlessly how would you do that
how would you cut these symbols in utter
Precision Beyond Comprehension and never
make a mistake and put those in there
like that now that altar in front of you
is made out of golden kisite
Alabaster right and they don't even know
where it came from okay they they seem
to be going to Great Lengths to create
these unbelievable temples aligned with
sun movements for very specific
energetic reasons and I think it goes
way deeper than that yeah you look at
the designs of ianus the way that
there's this pillar design a Basalt with
an andesite Central Susi Temple that
they all have these Connections in this
square around and that they have these
extended periods of stone extend off of
each corner it's like there's some kind
of an energetic
metaphysical uh response that we have no
comprehension about at all like for
instance I don't think this is anything
about just tracking movements of the sun
I think the actual sun and the energy
may have created something within this
that human beings have no concept of yet
well have you heard of certain people
lying like sacred geometry is what I'm
trying to say yeah know I get it um or
yeah theories of you know resonance or
fractal geometri of right so um yeah
have you heard of rumors of sort of
elite people you know uh spending time
in Granite chamers in some of these
pyramids like modern day like this
happening now because I've heard of this
I've heard of you know this uh idea of
you know certain people going into
Granite Chambers and then having sort of
outof body experiences astral
projections and uh you know coming back
feeling sort of you know think that was
one of the purposes behind them Y and
why do you think that I think that these
were temples that were related to like
Ascension temples if I want to call them
that okay Ascension temples that were
designed around not only human conscious
harmonics okay frequency and vibration
but also this Fusion between um the
again like the Earth Moon the Sun and
also constellations and and all of those
had that concept of the law of
Correspondence that created a Synergy
and that made perhaps Humanity
forgetting that when we create these
beautiful spaces of energy right temples
of certain kinds of stone aligned in a
certain kinds of way often with Gardens
or flowing water or different things
that it's like a magic is unlocked if I
can describe it that way yeah it's like
some kind of a magic is unlocked and we
become a conduit to be able to reach
higher States and I believe that was one
of their functions for why they were
created the way they were and that we
have literally forgotten all of it it's
it's really fascinating that you have
pink Quartz in Egypt you have granite in
Egypt you have what do you call this
golden it's it's golden csite cite in
all these cases materials that don't
exist locally in the immediate
surrounding environment they're sort of
going out getting them then they're
using seemingly techniques when it comes
to building these geometric structures
creating these Stone carvings that we
can barely do today or if we would need
heavy machinery we don't even know why
they did that now and and let me give
you uh a reason why this has been missed
this is a big point I want to get across
yeah yeah why is archaeology so awful
when archaeologists came into this
region there was a man named Charles
Bernie who was like the you could call
him the grandfather of your Artin
history he kind of put a lot of the your
Aran history together and then a lot of
the archaeologists that came later wrote
in papers that a lot of their
understanding came from him and then it
kind of trickled Dr it trick trickled
down it's called The Ivory Tower it's
this idea that wellestablished uh
prestigious people come before and then
others are not willing to go outside of
that narrative because it's like this
established uh uh Doctrine right that
gets that gets firmly established and
then it almost gets buil off each other
now go back to that sheet underneath the
one the big one now you see what's in
his hand and you see how in the center
there's a cypress tree of life you see
that yeah they believe based on the
arines being warlike that what haldi is
passing and TBA there it's TBA and haldi
one is a storm God and one is a god of
uh preservation we see that in the in
the uh what's called the triy in in uh
in ancient uh India with Shiva right
Vishnu Brahma I'm sure you've heard of
that right yeah it's this idea of a
Creator a preserver and a destroyer okay
that's very much the same Concepts we
see here except for because the were
warlike they believe archaeologists
believe firmly that what they're passing
in their hand is a
spearhead a spearhead and that all those
tea windows up above are false windows
in a castle so much so that these sites
are actually called kesis meaning
fortresses because the urans built
fortresses on top of them they are
literally looking through everything and
from the lens of a War culture right
everything and so none of them come back
to being like an ancient uh mystical
Sage teaching they're like they're like
a war symbol and because of that all of
these uh I believe are basically
misinterpreted now you see that t pillar
so if these aren't spearheads what are
they they're they're the seeds passing
the seeds of knowledge ah basically like
we see all around the world now I want
to I want to show you so what are
examples of that that's so let me give
let me give you example I'm going to
pass this over to you I want you to see
something so they just assume it's a
spirit because they that the ardans were
warlike culture exactly now let me let
me pass something to you that I think
will help you understand this in a
greater way that's so fascinating take a
look at this yeah okay now that is that
shavo Tepe it's made out of balt now now
that's Robert shock right there uh we
were all there just recently now look at
the tea pillars on the box right the
ball the ball relief right in front of
you uhhuh no right here on the paper oh
okay now look at this the te
right here oh I
see you see that yeah see exact same
thing whoa so where is this that's at a
site right in the same region called
shavu Tepe that is this mysterious te
pillar which then mimics things like
Minorca Spain and gockley teepe and we
see the same te Concept in Pumapunku as
well this is crazy man so it's out
everywhere it's like this ancient
teaching that was being around and now
they believe that those are false
doorways except they have no hole in the
the back they're solid that ways right
in front of you that weighs 7 to 10
tons and there's no Basalt local to that
area it also it makes sense
archaeologists would be way off on this
because you have like this national
pride thing and you just want to like
say that it was like this modern you
know like or whatever whatever modern
thing you would never want to predate it
to some aned Global civilization exactly
you know is the Proto layer to
everything like that would suck right if
you're especially if you're like the
minister of culture for like a specific
region you would never want to do that
so it makes sense like incentive wise
why you would like ignore all of this or
you would say you know this is a a a tip
of a spear when it's in fact the seeds
of knowledge like that's really
interesting now and now let me let me
show you one more image really quick to
compare to that I think you're going to
really like this take a look look at
this one right here so this is from
That's from the back of the sunate in
tiwanaku bivia and it's the same concept
of the three doorways you see that now
look at closely at the left and right
side of those doorways do you see the T
pillar
design it's got the same
top with the three levels within it just
the same as the T pillar now now now
watch this I want to show you one more
okay and and where is that in tiwanaku
Bolivia
Bolivia Jesus that's so interesting this
is
pumu there's your key do all of these
have astronomical alignments too that
all of them now you do you see the T
again this crazy man do you see the T
again I do yeah that's puma punu in
Bolivia and so and wow thousands and
thousands of mil okay so now I think the
AST now I'm higher conviction that the
astronomical alignments matter yeah
because like if they all lined up at a C
so when okay and then can we get a
little more precise about the timing
given the astronomical alignments or
these could be broad ranges different
times when they can align the one thing
I can say is I'm very compelled with the
research that's done with geodesi
looking at where the North Pole was in
relation to True North and also where
for instance I was mentioning these Susi
temples they faced either west or east
but not anymore they're offset so for
instance let's say this is East right
this is West right instead of being East
they're like that and instead of being
West they're like that and so it's like
well when did the earth when was the
Tilt different so that they faced East
and same thing as when did they the
temples fa true like True North not you
know when was when was the North Pole uh
mag you know True North not where it is
now right so those are ways that we can
start to understand these in a different
way and I'll make sure we put all those
images online so people can see what
we're looking at um during this and so
the Big Dipper is like seven stars right
is is that right two three I'd have to
add them I think seven and I think
Polaris is considered well it's one of
the Stars the Big Dipper yes it's the
end of the ladle yeah and it's
considered I think in you know like I
think eel's chariots go towards that
like you know the Northstar Polaris and
so I do think in a lot of these hermetic
Traditions right like you go towards you
know the the the the North Star
basically well I think I think by doing
that again it's that concept of odessi
if you align yourselves to cardinal
points of the earth both solar and
magnetic you create something you like
something special does any of this
relate to the modern UFO phenomena I
know it's a really weird question think
so I think uh I would just I'll throw
out that I think a lot of UFOs are based
on like secret government technology yep
and then what percentage or do you think
any of them are not or do you think all
all of them are based on secret
government Tech um I will tell you that
uh I think the concept of Ancient Aliens
has been a bit skewed from what I look
at with these Gods like haldi it seems
more like some kind of celestial
intelligence that is far more powerful
than that concept related more towards a
greater concept than someone coming here
in a ship um in fact the nearest star
system to us would take like a 100 light
years to get to it's it's really
I mean Lighty years if we could travel
with the speed of light it seems to me I
think it would take 80,000 years with
chemical chemical combustion sari it
seems to me that yeah I probably didn't
get that number quite right but it seems
to me that we uh were maybe
misinterpreting our way of looking at
the influences of these and I'm not
saying it's just man I don't think that
I think that there's something greater
and higher and I think they're what has
been confused with being Angels and
Demons throughout history m
do do you think the angels and demons
are still with us at all I don't think
they ever leave I think there's some
kind of a being bound to this reality
and that's why they seem to show that
they're the Guardians of uh balance here
so you think they're Guardians
coexisting with Humanity right now yeah
and then we somehow have a connection to
them in a way where we are almost like
children of that and that we're growing
up to learn our true potential and that
they're like the teachers where are the
Guardians
I believe that we're now supposed to
find our way back on our own interesting
and that we were given the keys do you
think these are there yeah that's why I
think all that happened is that we were
given the keys there and that we lost
them and now it's our turn to find our
way back do you think the Guardians are
physical beings or non-physical I think
they can be physical if they want to but
they seem like they're very very
powerful Celestial beings in hermeticism
they call them the second mind yep I do
think about like where Humanity could
head and you you have like two two paths
right say we have to inflect down or up
and down is like we are extremely
resource constrained we go through some
malthusian cycle we live in this
totalitarian World we're all
microchipped we have to you know we have
barely have access to clean water and
then the other future is like a ton of
resource abundance via you know
technology or whatever so I think in
both in both cases you'd end up in some
sort of simulation because you're going
to have like you know the increase of
you know it you know like like Fidel
High Fidelity like simulations all VR
whatever neuralink you know higher
bandwidth relationship with computation
you know that that that's probably just
going to increase and but that's our
path that doesn't mean that that was
their path well where I think it gets
interesting is even if we inflect
downwards so if you inflect downwards
like ready player one like you want to
opt into the simulation if you inflect
upwards it's probably through Tech
that's a dual use so it's like
controlled you know uh nuclear fusion
creates clean energy for all
uncontrolled nuclear fusion creates the
hydrogen bomb right and so like
basically like a kid in his bedroom
could like blow up the world at some
point in the future probably and so
you'd need if you're a guardian of that
Civilization you would need people to be
perfectly altruistic and so maybe you'd
give them some sort of simulation test
you know all like contemplation of
virtue to like get outside of their
simulation or cave if you're using the
pl analogy and so I think uh there's
probably a a version of the future in
either scenario where we end up in a
simulation and then it's like why aren't
we already in that future why aren we
you know maybe these are like biological
meat suits and we're in a cave right now
and there's there you know these guys
the Guardians are like literally like
outside us goating us with little
symbology here and there and you know
helping us throughout our lives uh but
you know we have to sort of seek seek
the knowledge ourselves well there's
there's this idea that if we can be
tricked then we're not
ready okay and I so I want to get to
that idea of this bu these building
styles why they do all that stuff why
build all that like these things like
this why out of those types of stones
why do that I think it was a completely
the other path that Humanity can take
the what what I have studied is that
there's only two real paths yeah that a
civilization can take what are they
there's one that is a very organic
natural path and someone might see that
as being primitive but I think that's
what this other civilization took
building out of giant Stones
understanding the potential of the human
energy field and the human mind to
unlock abilities that we no longer
remember any longer telekinesis
potentially levitation right things that
we don't understand where they seem to
be in harmonic resonance with the earth
and the universe and I think that path
is the complete opposite from what we
took and then there's the other path
which is like a cheating system which is
where you you picky back off of uh
fossil fuels and then have like this
massive jump start by getting ahead in
in your Civilization by kind of
polluting the world and getting further
and further away from Spirit and Source
though it's it's a it's like you get
there kind of quick look what happens in
the last 500 years I think there's this
addiction to you know the kardashev
scale so this idea of you know I think
it's like 70s like Soviet astronomer
something this idea of like uh levels of
energy you know ability to manipulate
levels of energy us to kind of travel at
you know at different levels
Interstellar and so you know there's a
single planet civilization multiplet
civilization you know multi- Galactic
Civilization and you get you get to
higher levels and I think we're sort of
addicted to this idea of like getting to
you know increased increased levels of
kind of energy density concept though
yeah that's what I'm saying I think
there's there's something actually very
magical about human biology and the
Earth and the Earth itself and there's
sort of there's a technology involved in
like the construction of us and and life
and biological life that is I'm sort of
a biological exception exceptionalist
like I think there's something very
uniquely special about biology that we
don't we don't understand 100% and um
and you know there are all these
examples so like the emerging you know
we're trying to build quantum computers
right now and you know the bottleneck is
keeping the chips in these extremely
cool environments it's really energy
intensive you know it's a material
science problem as well and you know
increasingly you have this field of
quantum biology where we're actually
finding out all sorts of quantum
processes in the human body and other
animal organisms whether it's Robin's
kind of navigating home via the
magnosphere of the Earth the C4 protein
or you know uh enzyme creation via
Quantum tunneling or photosynthesis you
know all this stuff is kind of emerging
and then I I think there's an
interesting you know quantum mechanics
interpretation which gets so overused to
be honest on channels like Gaia and in
the self-help Community but that
actually was pretty well studied in the
form of
parasym this idea that you know wave
function collapse is this completely
random process that has nothing to do
with the mind all the people who created
this stuff Schrodinger himself probably
would have you know what did entertain
the idea that the mind was part of
collaps yeah and the Copenhagen school
is completely consistent with that
interpretation yes and so I yeah totally
so I do I think there is something very
unique and special about Consciousness
that materialist
production yeah that's the big piece I
think that's missing is that we are far
more powerful than we realize oh way
more and that we our Consciousness is
not localized that we have this idea
that we want to physically travel
somewhere but perhaps we're looking at
it in the wrong way 100% And in in two
ways both in the form of chemical
combustion Rockets yes and then also in
the form of this Silicon Valley Cult of
transhumanism where we need a higher
bandwidth relationship with classical
computers when you know I think I think
our brain is actually sort of a quantum
computer and it has some sort of tessera
holograph component like we're a higher
dimensional space I I I believe that
we're like antennas and and if we can
tap into this certain frequency we tap
into this uh all knowing this and this
type of like a kosic record almost like
Source energy and that we are a very
very special and very Divine being we
just don't remember yeah I agree with
that well think the and that's what
mystery rituals do is they so like the
idea that the body and the brain is
actually a collapsing function it's a
narrowing valve a filtering of something
that involves greater omniscience
beneath it is is this age-old idea and
it's completely unfalsifiable to say
that Consciousness is locally produced
and not actually transmitted in some I
can't wait till that goes away I'm I'm
so frustrated by that I I think it will
because there's there's more evidence
think about it even even
phenomenologically brain does not create
Consciousness when you are daydreaming
where is that the content of your
thoughts where is that being produced
William James you know and Aldis Huxley
all these people were big fans of this
transmission Theory Of Consciousness and
it you have this binding problem of
Consciousness where you have no idea how
the disparate parts of our brain you
know you have it's very mysterious yeah
meld together you would have a binding
problem of a radio you need to know that
it has an antenna that is transmitting a
signal to know that why it's playing you
know ofal these Four Seasons or Tupac or
whatever and so it's like this really
important question and yeah I mean I can
get into even crazier theories around
you know an extended version of
electrodynamics that that might involve
I don't we we haven't figured it out
scientifically
but the mystery rituals point to this
because if you look at the linian
Mysteries or any of these other rituals
they involve the temporary killing of
the physical body through a near-death
experience
and then you remember your it's called
noesis is the Greek you remember your
primordial Soul self yeah and then you
come back with this knowledge of your
own immortality and this sort of renewed
confidence in your life yeah because
energy can't be destroyed it can only
change state which means that if we're
if our spirit is connected to a
reincarnation system of our soul right
then it means that we never truly die
right and that the fear of death is
actually just to keep us um trapped here
yeah and that what was that there was
that Greek Cathedral that said if you if
you die before you die you won't die
when you die or whatever and that's that
it really is the um kind of underlying
principle behind all of these rituals
yeah and you know whether it's in the
Amazon putting your hand in a glove full
of 20,000 bullet ants you're kind of
switching the thing off and that's an
Act of Faith because you you you then
realize that the world is much more
expansive and if you look at like the
neoplatonist like like uh platinus for
example would say that you know
simulation is used all the time in in
today's world but it's used in this sort
of nihilistic postmodern you know bottle
Ard you know simul simulacra you know
it's just a video game right but there's
this platonic sense that like in
platinus would say like we are we are as
a Souls porting ourselves into a
low-level reality yes and that's
probably I don't things are unifiable
that's the journey that I told you it's
that starting from a higher place and
then ending up um having to go through
the wandering of the darkness of a lower
State and then finding our way back I
think that's the game yeah and along the
way we learn incredible lessons about
how to exist from I think what starts as
a
metaphysical existence into this
physical reality and then having to
learn real consequences and lessons
about growth the growth of our soul the
growth of um what kind of a what kind of
a being we want to be and how we how are
itive Consciousness can rise up and be
raised by that that growth so why do you
feel like you're driven to uncover kind
of the secrets of ancient civilization
what I I I have believed based on
certain U experiences I've had that I
probably had a life in one of these
ancient civilizations with some of these
things because they feel uh a lot of it
feels very driven and very important to
me in this life to uncover these connect
them and I
uh I feel like it's more of sometimes it
almost feels a little bit like
remembering but not in the sense where
I'm trying to claim that I'm you know
tapping
into something for instance I'm not
trying to say like oh I remember all
this stuff and I haven't done the
research it's more like as you're I'm
going along and connecting all these
dots you sort of have like a knowing
you're like oh shoot like of course
right and and then also what happens is
then you like go deeper and then you get
to another layer it's like an onion and
then it's like oh hey by the way you
were right before but that's not the
same um there's like a more expansive
way to look at it you like oh I get it
like I didn't see that before and then
it keeps going and there is there's
these like steps and levels to
understanding this nature of reality
well I think you know there's a Plato
dialogue you know Mino where he says all
knowledge is recollection yeah and I
think the idea that we are just running
some like local Optimizer to like learn
random things to just lead a good life
or whatever it's total BS you are when
you learn something that sticks with you
like how does memory work it's the
reinforcement or articulation of
probably latent knowledge inside of you
and you see it and there's some
resonance and you're like this is this
is really interesting I have to focus on
this and I don't know why yeah and then
that leads to other things and if you
were if people were honest about about
their own epistemics that would be how
everybody would describe how they
navigate life and they wouldn't be able
to navigate life otherwise I'm telling
you that's the future is this is here's
the thing I I see that that actually
unlocked a lot of this is that your
intuition is your guidance get out of
your brain use that for things like
silly you like get figuring Mass stuff
out in bills and things like that but
when you want to make really important
decisions or paths in life get out of
this get into this trust trust yourself
trust that you're more powerful than
you've been told and trust that you're
being guided and I'm telling you the do
is just unlock and all of a sudden these
Divine synchronicities happen right
you're like you trust you like you give
it a little bit of trust and then
something happens and then you're like
whoa and then it leads to something else
and you're like how did that even just
happen and then it blows your mind and
then you start being like well this is
like a Trippy thing and then you the
more you go down it the more you realize
that we're definitely part of this like
guided Divine story you can play a part
in that you can either right you can
either like Shakespeare said right all
of the world is a stage what which part
do you want to play do you want to play
the the the hero the uh the antagonist
do you want to play just someone kind of
neutral like an NPC in the background
but at any any point based on Free Will
you can decide to kind of wake up and
start that Journey using your intuition
where do you think the next big
breakthrough is going to come from and I
I'll ask it differently because I think
a lot of times
people in your position Robert shock's
position Graham Hancock's position you
end up in this sort of Lial space where
like half of the people that like
resonate with your stuff you know all
these people who like hear you out
really agree with you and they're like
this makes so much sense this is right
we've been lied to about ancient
civilization do you think there's a
point in our lifetime or at any point in
the near future where this flips into oh
this is the consensus like like all of
these you know Fertile Crescent is the
cradle of civilization and all of these
kind of like hyper nationalized stories
are just kind of BS and a lot of this
ancient architecture all over the world
comports with universal
symbology I think that the reason it
hasn't come out yet is that Humanity
wasn't ready it's like a mystery school
it's like the adepts are ready when
they're ready and we as a collective
have not been ready yet we've been
governed by lower consciousness in
different aspects of energy and that's
why these things have been able to be
held back because we allowed it but
that's that there's a Tipping Point like
Graham says I believe our entire history
has been built on a foundation of sand
and that's that tide is coming in right
now well I I think I mean just thinking
again using the my left brain logical
like how most people think out there I
think the way to tip the scales here
would be to come up with some new age
dating method Beyond carbon dating if we
could somehow do that for any of these
structures and then if we could find
more of them you mentioned like maybe a
half dozen if we could find more of them
and we could date them all I I I think
we get to this point of this critical
threshold of it's beyond A Reasonable
Doubt well let me add something to that
I guess this is this would probably be
helpful for you I am part of a very
significant documentary that I'm leading
awesome um with some very interesting
individuals around the world including
of the ones we've already mentioned that
we are trying to do that very thing
right now epic and we're right in the
middle of that we've been those trips I
mentioned to you were scouting trips
that are out in advance of something
much greater um that we are building um
for a documentary that we hope helps to
shift uh that entire narrative super
exciting well if I can join for any leg
of that trip Count Me In man I'm serious
I'll I'll fly wherever and uh just be a
fly on the wall and uh you know be
awesome to witness history so it's very
exciting uh the documentary goes from
these sites in turkey that includes uh
Peru and Bolivia and Minorca Spain and
we'll uh potentially expand on other
things but let's just say that some of
these secrets um are we have some very
compelling uh data and some very
interesting things that I can't I can't
share everything yet but stay tuned
because um things are about to get
exciting anything you can hint at and
anything mindblowing that we missed um
there's some very interesting there is
some potential dating stuff that I can't
talk about yet really yes that's going
to Smoking Gun that things are older
than we think yeah so stay tuned um I've
had to have a vow of secrecy on that one
that's really exciting yeah wow well if
we could get that man help me break I
mean let me help you break it come back
and we'll we'll we'll we'll talk about I
will we we're it's it's an ongoing
project we are um we want to make sure
we do our dual dual diligence to explore
all these places uh before actually
filming so we can make sure that we um
we tell the story and PR present the
evidence in the best way possible very
cool and is it it's you Robert shock
anybody else uh we have a whole team um
and again some I want I don't want to
say that just because everyone's
involved in it that they have to have a
certain perspective I want to just throw
that out there that all the people
involved in this are experts in their
field and they are just bringing their
expertise and we are um investigating
these Mysteries but it doesn't mean
anyone has to necessarily be on board to
anything um but yes we have uh experts
like uh Robert shock U we have um um
Robert Edward Grant we have
archaeologist symbologist or polymath we
have uh archaeologist Hans orim we have
sacred geometry expert Arturo um um
Arturo Pon Leon and we have uh L Leon he
must to change that name and then we
have uh we have uh Lydia Lydia Deon so
we have some uh we have some really
really interesting we also have Paul
Wallace who's a Biblical expert I don't
if you've heard of Paul Wallace um and
some others that we're we're we're
putting together to investigate some of
these Mysteries right now fantastic well
I'm super excited to see what you guys
dig up I think it's a really interesting
time it's convergence of the world kind
of waking up to a lot of this stuff this
Collective Amnesia possibly
as well as just a new tech that where
you know ideally we can sort of date
absolutely um and if you want to support
that um the stageof time.com you can go
to documentary on the tab the tab there
and we have all that information there
for what we're doing awesome uh have you
ever read a book called Forbidden
Archaeology by any chance if you're
familiar with it so they talk about a
lot of these you know like the anti
theor mechanism you know that was found
on this island in Greece you know where
it's basically you can predict I'm I'm
well planetary alignments and
positioning via this like early computer
or something do you think that a lot of
this theory that you're kind of
stumbling into explains a lot of that
you know astronomically and
technologically precocious because they
had mastered those things and the reason
why we don't find much of it is because
if you have enormous amounts of time
that go by with catastrophes there's
very little that can survive a
civilization and I would bring up what
would survive our civilization y I mean
if you think about it wood would just
rot metal would corrode glass would just
break off and disappear and round out
into what looks like you know quartz
almost and then shatter into smaller
pieces yeah things like what do we
actually have that would survive digital
records would all be gone paper gone in
500 to a th000 years all we would have
is getting back to what they did is the
stonework from like churches and chapels
and things that would literally be all
that would survive us yep maybe humans
are storage mechanisms exactly so I
think that's that's the thing that
really needs to be um iterated here is
that we look at so little that's left
but really like there's quite a bit
considering how much time has gone
by so many thousands of years and yet
structures like we just pointed out like
ionas just remain the they Remain the
test of time and their teachings survive
until were're ready to finally
understand what they really mean
fascinating man well Matt I really
appreciate your time this was awesome
and I I enjoyed that conversation it was
great yeah well I feel like we're just
on the precipice of I I I'd love to help
in any way push this forward because I
think it's like really important stuff
and I want to get to the bottom of it if
we could somehow figure out that all of
this was older there were more than what
we have now and that you have still you
have consistent symbology across all
these sites you know that's just this
massive exciting that's what we're
working to do right now and I feel like
we're at that precipice right now where
that old Foundation is collapsing the
sand foundation and we're at the edge
where it's going to be a Tipping Point
where all of a sudden once we you know
bring out some of this good evidence and
some of these new things emerging that
it's going to just shift like dominoes
yeah well look
like I think
instrumentation is really crucial for
ontological understanding of Truth so
it's like galile needed a telescope to
tell us that we didn't live in a
heliocentric universe and there's so
many examples the discovery of like
bacteria in the late 19 centur you know
whatever electrons you know via You Know
M microscopy or whatever that uh
perceptual hacking or whatever is like
how we understand the true world that
we're probably swimming in and living in
outside of our it's called awareness
yeah it's awareness increase your
awareness of everything so the idea that
like we won't have a profoundly
different understanding of the origins
of Humanity near term even given that
Archaeology is in its modern form only
you know sub20 years old is actually I
think involves a lot of hubris and is
probably just completely wrong you know
there's a great book called The halflife
of facts by a guy named Samuel arbisman
and he talks about facts and consensus
being like almost acting like
radioactive isotope Decay where like
half of the facts SL SLO off and we
overturn them constantly I see this as
as having a I just want to say this and
we can we can end out is that um I see
it as being this enormous shift that all
of a sudden just pivots yeah I have I
have archaeologists that email me all
the time young young guys in school
young girls in school like wanting to
like learning about archaeology or
they're new to archaeology they're just
starting out and they're like I want to
make a difference but I don't want to
follow the old narrative once it shifts
once we see that shift and all those
listening to this imagine what we can
accomplish if we're all on the same team
totally open-minded objective science
like it was supposed to be all along
just the facts look into what's there
have no biased what and and that that's
a broad spectrum across everything what
could Humanity do if we were under the
lens of like trying to better ourselves
and understand who we really are what
could we unlock and Achieve together I
think it's AA and caribdis and on the
one hand you have new Agy magical
thinking but on the other hand you have
equally dogmatic skepticism and if right
now we have too much skepticism and it's
this Citadel this Priestly Citadel of
expert you know class or whatever that's
trying to keep everybody else out and I
think it's a beauty of the internet
Because the Internet is more of a true
Marketplace of ideas than sort of Legacy
Media and you can see Graham Hancock
debate flint dible and then you can fact
checked Flint Dibble and realized that
he got all his shipwreck data completely
wrong and he lied about it and like
it's this beautiful Collective kind of
Socratic process of like accessing truth
that's kind of you know despite back
doors into social media platforms all
Twitter files or whatever it's kind of
hard to shut down like it's this it's
it's growing and it can't be stopped
octopus that's just growing yeah you
can't take it back out of the once the
Box is open right it's like this is all
opening up right now you can't put it
back you can't put it back it's only
going to grow to a greater understanding
and eventually it's just going to tip
the scales and then and I encourage all
archaeologists and scientists whatever
whoever you are freeth thinkers of the
world to understand that you know this
is about to shift and just imagine what
we can all accomplish together on that
kind of mindset I would love that man
well let's let's do it and uh okay final
question um any of these sort of ancient
you know symbolic structures whether
it's the Ark of the Covenant the Holy
Grail like some of these you know things
that we've quested for for thousands of
years do you have high conviction that
any of these exist and if so what's the
thing that your highest conviction in
and where do you think it's located and
one of the things that that may happen
with this shift is during transparency
we may end up uh realizing that there
are things that have been hidden
deliberately things that have been
hidden in certain parts of the world uh
I'll just say this certain ancient
temples that have been dismantled and
things that have been removed and I have
found very very compelling evidence that
that it's happened Temple of which
Temple uh some of the ones that we were
just referring to interesting uh in that
region and um that there are and other
things that have been deliberately
hidden for instance the 40,000 Ki form
tablets at the Asher Bop Paul Library
around 150 have been translated out of
40,000 wow we have to start asking about
bringing together uh a global awareness
of what has happened to all these things
where they have gone and what maybe we
can gleam from them and so I would just
say that this shift over to a new
paradigm of thinking an open-minded
objective science to understand who we
really are and what has happened to us
in the past will also unlock some other
Secrets regarding things that have been
hidden from us for a very long time and
I think the the bifurcation of Mythology
and quote unquote history is ridiculous
because a lot of the path past comprised
mythology and religion and so you have
you know uh Hinrich V schlaman in 18 71
being motivated by thus cities and Homer
everybody was saying that was just
mythology and then he finds Troy and
then now we you shupac like we just went
over sh Pac we're finding that out now
you know um uh Plato saying you know at
tus and crus you know this in this at
this Mythos Festival saying that 9,000
years ago we fought against Atlantis the
Athenians did and and so increasingly
and then maybe that that's meltwater
pulse 1B or maybe that's some other
thing whatever conversation about that I
could bring some stuff to that next time
we can talk about oh really oh yeah oh
interesting The Plato yeah I think Plato
has been um uh overly and I I believe
what he's saying but I mean I think
there's even better evidence for
Atlantis besides that well tell me no
you got this is totally relevant to our
conversation today you got to tell okay
I'll just I'll say this and then we can
end out but U for instance Plato of
course is uh Socrates his mentor was
murdered and poisoned during that time
period because he spoke out not
necessarily about lost civilizations but
spoke out right he drank a poison he
killed he was forced he was forced to
drink Hemlock it was his choice to die
his choice of death because he had to it
was like you can do this this this right
the problem was Plato was very concerned
about speaking openly about things
because of again his mentor was killed
he was devastated others couldn't speak
out so I think that's why he he took all
those things and put him into allegory
okay however the thing that I think
people Miss is that there's another poet
and philosopher called plut AR there's
also diodorus but plutar never gets
talked about plutar I have his book
plutar lives well in plutar he describes
how there was a very specific Elder
priest at the Temple of C in Egypt named
sanas and he describes them in great
detail and I realize that if we look at
that on paper um having an individual
called out that has very a name that has
a standing as a certain Elder priest of
that an actual Temple that they found
and there's pictures of
brings it the whole thing out of
allegory into a realism sense Plutarch
describes sanus in great detail as being
the Elder priest of the Temple of sa and
therefore um I think justifying that the
story was not allegorical and was
actually
real but and so oh interesting so he
talks about him as like a historical
figure yeah exactly and it was he the
one that relayed that he was the one
that Solon learned the entire story from
Atlantis from very spe so what I mean is
you think about something like oh that
sounds fun like meeting up with
hypothetical priests down in down in
Egypt okay but how about plutarch's
version where he actually describes a
specific individual in history that is
the elder priest of the Temple of C
named sanches who is the one who KN who
had all the knowledge because he was the
Elder priest and they all the other ones
were supporting of him oh why is nobody
bring that up that's wild that's what I
think too and we know that sanas went to
Egypt no sanas was the Elder priest of
the Temple of C that Solon went down to
meet and that's who told him the entire
story of Atlantis and he to and great an
anci okay so Solon never went directly
to Egypt sanus no no no no no Solon
learned the story from sanus ah he was
the Elder priest of the Temple of C of
these other priests so when Plato talks
about it likeus go to Egypt though or
like was this sanas is the elder priest
of the Temple of SE and Temple is Egypt
oh that's in Egypt okay got it you see
what I'm saying got it so it's no longer
a hypothetical place that Solon goes to
to find out a story it's a very specific
place that was number one verified and
number two now we have an historical
figure who was the Elder priest that
knew all the knowledge and talked about
how that literally was the purpose of
the Temple of SE was to be a
recordkeeping location for history we
know that and it was destroyed at some
point within the next 500 years to A
Thousand Years it didn't exist and it
like we never saw it again have we dug
it up at all or no no it was like wiped
out and just disappeared in history the
Temple of we have paintings made from it
from descriptions of those who saw it
how do we know that it was this
historical record keeping because place
because plutar goes into details of
talking about sanis as being the Elder
priest of that entire Temple who was
basically giving descriptions of it in a
way that Plato doesn't even do that's
wild yeah it's like another layer to it
if people want to go down is plutar
fascinating well there you go kind of
hidden between the lines a little bit if
you're paying attention I love it
mystery continues well Matt really
appreciate it man this is lot you to
Jesse that was a great conversation yeah
learned so much yeah to be continued to
be continued my friend awesome man cool
well thanks so much and if you want to
see my work uh my my YouTube channel is
Matthew lroy uh my Instagram is the
stage of time and my website is the
stageof time.com go check it out
subscribe like and yeah watch watch all
your awesome videos and yeah I hope I
hope you know a lot of people come out
and support you because I think you're
doing really important work and
sometimes work like this you know uh is
not it's an ex it's ex lies external to
our you know capitalist system or
whatever but it's like extremely
important agree and and uh you know
Carnegie Gospel of wealth sense it
should be like where the excess proceeds
you know flow directly to immediately
like it should be the first place we
fund is this these our our understanding
of ourselves and that should inform our
culture and everything so we'll get
there Jesse I appreciate it was a great
conversation thanks my friend awesome
man